The killer	Abdullah	And know this: suddenly one of the killers’ eyes cracked and fell out of its socket. Afterwards the pieces of glass were found, ground into the carpet!” They say, “When the dogs came [MASK] was nearly dead and the knives were blunt. . .

""	Cousins	Great forces were working that night; and all present were about to feel their power, and be afraid.) [MASK]—one to four—gathering in the doorway through which the dark lady has passed, drawn like moths to the candle of her screech . .

The Pools	Pushpa	And in the end his indomitable campaign won a victory, because today the Pools permit certain Indians—“the better sort”—to step into their map-shaped waters. But [MASK] does not belong to the better sort; old now and forgotten, he watches the Pools from afar . . .

The killers	Nadir	afterwards the killers were so badly damaged that nobody could say who they were.” “At some point,” they say, “[MASK] dived out of the window and ran. The dogs and assassins were too busy to follow him.”

The Maidan	Shaheed	But [MASK] was staring at a maidan in which lady doctors were being bayoneted before they were raped, and raped again before they were shot. Above them and behind them, the cool white minaret of a mosque stared blindly down upon the scene.

""	Tai	In a valley drenched in freshwater lakes, where even the very poorest people could (and did) pride themselves on their cleanliness, [MASK] chose to stink. For three years now, he had neither bathed nor washed himself after answering calls of nature.

Muhammad	Amina	This is not right acting.” And [MASK], “I know this man. He is a decent type. Go, get out, none of you have anything to do? In a Muslim muhalla you would tear a man to pieces? Go, remove yourselves.”

Ponyboy	Shiva	Since I was eight. Older kids and all. What d’you think of that?” And I, without meaning to, “What’s it do, your gang—does it have rules and all?” [MASK] laughter in my ears . . .

Sperectomy	Saleem	[MASK] would like to donate one further item, free gratis and for nothing, to this catalogue of excisions; it is, however, a term which properly belongs to history, although medical science is, was involved: Sperectomy: the draining-out of hope.

Ponyboy	Evie	Heads fitting together, we began our descent to earth, falling clear of the bikes, fortunately, WHUMMP and for a moment the world went away. Then [MASK] with her freckles on fire, “O ya little creep, ya pile of snot, ya wrecked my ...”

Martha	Padma	“My God,” [MASK] is rushing for a towel to wet in cold water, “your forehead is on fire! Better you lie down now; too soon for all this writing! The sickness is talking; not you.”

Sergeant-Major	Bonzo	he cried in the thin voice which squeezed between his nose and chin, “The old lady can smell the mines!” [MASK] was drafted forthwith into the armed forces as a four-legged mine-detector with the courtesy rank of sergeant-major.

Bullock	Tai	And after the body, bloated, wrapped in weeds, had been dredged up by a group of blank-faced boatmen, [MASK] visited the shikara halt and told the men there, as they recoiled from his breath of a bullock with dysentery, “He blames me, only imagine!

""	Ahmed	Metallic noise of a metal paper-cutter being lifted, colliding momentarily with telephone. The brief rasp of metal slicing envelope; and one minute later, [MASK] was running back up the stairs, yelling for my mother, shouting:

Lotus	Padma	[MASK] has regained her self-control. “Okay, okay,” she expostulates, waving an arm in dismissal of her tears, “Why you’re waiting? Begin,” the lotus instructs me loftily, “Begin all over again.”

The ghost	Shaheed	The ghost, leaking fluid . . . !” And [MASK], “Deserters, they’ll say—empty-handed, no prisoner, after so-many months!—Allah, a court-martial, maybe, what do you think, buddha?”

Buddha	Saleem	I. He. He, the buddha. Who, until the snake, would remain not-[MASK]; who, in spite of running-from, was still separated from his past; although he clutched, in his limpet fist, a certain silver spittoon.

""	God!”—and	yes no? Many India soldier are buy, they talk so-many different tongues, the belt is godsend from [MASK] then he noticed what the buddha held in his hand. “Ho sir! Absolute master thing! Is silver? Is precious stone?

Mother	Emerald	Day by day the five children watched their father disappearing, while their mother grimly guarded the dishes of food. “Will you be able to vanish completely?” [MASK] asked with interest, adding solicitously, “Don’t do it unless you know how to come back again.”

The Government	Mary	But [MASK] does not relax; and always, whenever she enters the baby’s room, her eyes flick wildly towards the letter in its frame; her eyes look around her, trying to see whether the Government is watching; wondering eyes: what do they know?

Martha	Amina	The feet very close now and [MASK] stamping into the dining-room pot in hand, concentrating hard at restraining herself, thinking Why must she come today when I have news to tell and also I’ll have to ask for money in front of her.

The President	Mirza	An eleven-year-old boy cannot judge whether a President is truly corrupt, even if gongs-and-pips say he is; it is not for eleven-year-olds to say whether [MASK]’s association with the feeble Republican Party should have disqualified him from high office under the new regime.

Peg	Amina	You know you like the house. And two months . . . less than two ... what, is it kicking? Let me feel. . . Where? Here?” “There,” [MASK] says, wiping her nose, “Such a good big kick.”

Lucknow-work	Amma	[MASK], do not go to see other men, with Lucknow-work on their shirt; enough, my mother, of teacup-kissery! I am in long trousers now, and may speak to you as a man.”

Inexactitudes	Padma	This is why hyphens are necessary: actively- literally, passively-metaphorically, actively-metaphorically and passively-literally, I was inextricably entwined with my world. Sensing [MASK]’s unscientific bewilderment, I revert to the inexactitudes of common speech:

""	Flory	He took to rising before dawn and locking himself with his current Fernanda or [MASK] in his downstairs office, outside whose windows the two evergreen trees he planted to commemorate my birth and the Monkey’s had already grown tall enough to keep out most of the daylight when it arrived.

Naturally.	Tai	Naturally.” [MASK] pushes the shikara off from the jetty. Spits. Begins to row away. “I knew it,” he says. “You will use such a machine now, instead of your own big nose.”

Panther	Zafar	The possibility of panthers! Cold, biting air!—so that I thought nothing of it when the General asked me if I’d mind sharing a bed with [MASK], and didn’t even guess when they spread the rubber sheet over the mattress ...

Gambling	Catrack	Gambling, is a terrible thing; it would be so shaming if my mother found out.” And [MASK], nodding dazedly, said, “Just as you wish.”) So it was not the Parsee who was behind it—but perhaps I can offer another explanation.

Cousinji	don’tyouthinkso	And the feet clattering and the pan being stirred while “How awful to be black, cousinji, to wake every morning and see it staring at you, in the mirror to be shown proof of your inferiority! Of course they know; even blackies know white is nicer, [MASK]?”

Dung-lotus	Padma	My dung-lotus swears (through much-gnashed teeth) that I was stiff as a board, with bubbles around my mouth. There was also a fever. In my delirium I babbled about snakes; but I know that [MASK] is no serpent, and never meant me harm.

""	Padma	“These things matter,” the betel-chewers say. “We have been alive too long, and we know.” ([MASK] is nodding her head in agreement.) The Convocation offices were on the ground floor of the historical faculty building at the University campus.

Time-traveller	Soumitra	but then I was on the wrong track, too; I could not see any more clearly than anyone else; and even when [MASK] the time-traveller said, “I’m telling you—all this is pointless—they’ll finish us before we start!”

John	Dyer	“Good shooting,” [MASK] tells his men, “We have done a jolly good thing.” When my grandfather got home that night, my grandmother was trying hard to be a modem woman, to please him; and so she did not turn a hair at his appearance.

Ponyboy	Padma	After that day, he was cured of one of his obsessions; he never tried again to discover his own (and wholly imaginary) family curse. “I couldn’t tell it any other way,” I say to [MASK].

Rahul	Naseem	Nowadays, [MASK]’s tongue was getting freer all the time. “What kind of talk is this? What are you—a man or a mouse? To leave home because of a stinky shikara-man!” . . .

Eros	Saleem	Is it possible to trace the origins of unnatural love? Did [MASK], who had yearned after a place in the center of history, become besotted with what he saw in his sister of his own hopes for life?

Mama	Padma	“O, mister, this war tamasha, kills the best and leaves the rest!” Looking as though hordes of snails have recently crawled down from her reddened eyes, leaving their glutinous shiny trails upon her face, [MASK] mourns my bomb-flattened clan.

Molly	Baba	Nice picnic; nice day out. [MASK], it will do you good .. .” As chutney arrives, bearer-borne, in my room, I hasten to put a stop to these suggestions. “No,” I refuse. “I have work to do.”

Babar	Humayun	And you know the words?” My father nods, lip jutting, toe still as he taps his forehead for emphasis. “All in here; all memorized. Hasn’t been used since an ancestor quarrelled with the Emperor Babar and put the curse on his son [MASK] . .

""	Rashid	Then, seemingly upset by the vulgarity of his decision, he fled to the cornfield and plunged in. Partially concealed by the sun-withered stalks, he lay down in the fetal position. [MASK] the rickshaw boy was seventeen and on his way home from the cinema.

I	Shaheed	Even if [MASK] had been able to hear me, I could not then have told him what I later became convinced was the truth: that the purpose of that entire war had been to reunite me with an old life, to bring me back together with my old friends.

Nose	Saleem	[MASK]’s nose (you can’t have forgotten) could smell stranger things than horse-dung. The perfumes of emotions and ideas, the odor of how-things-were: all these were and are nosed out by me with ease.

Parvatd	Shiva	(But there were exceptions. In particular, there was [MASK]; and there was Parvatd-the-witch.) ... Destiny, historical role, numen: these were mouthfuls too large for ten-year-old gullets.

Humbert	Suspicion	But now, because there are yet more questions and ambiguities, I am obliged to voice certain suspicions. [MASK], too, is a monster with too many heads; why, then, can’t I stop myself unleashing it at my own mother? . . .

Pip	Tai	Even my memory is going now; but I know, although I can’t read.” Illiteracy, dismissed with a flourish; literature crumbled beneath the rage of his sweeping hand. Which sweeps again to chugha-pocket, to brandy bottle, to lips chapped with cold. [MASK] always had woman’s lips.

Mrs. Pendleton	Aziz	She did not reply; but the next day, when [MASK] approached the kitchen, she emerged from it with a metal pot in her hands and barred the doorway. She was fat and also pregnant, so there was not much room left in the doorway.

Mama	Janum	He watched mystified as she made sure there was only one head; and then she relaxed completely, understanding that even fortune-tellers have only limited gifts. “[MASK],” my mother said excitedly, “you must call the papers.

Ponyboy	Pia	Hands at the Pioneer Cafe; wrong-number telephone calls; notes slipped to me on balconies, and passed under cover of bedsheets; my mother’s hypocrisy and [MASK]’s inconsolable grief: “Hai! Ai-hai! Ai-hai-fo/7” . . .

Mice	Nadir	“Women must marry men,” she said. “Not mice, whatsitsname! There is no shame in leaving that, whatsitsname, worm.” But her daughter continued to cry. Absence of [MASK] in his underworld!

Ponyboy	Archangels	As my glass-inflicted cuts faded, it was as though my announcement was also erased; and by the time of my ninth birthday, nobody besides myself remembered anything about the day when I had taken the name of [MASK] in vain.

Ladies	Ghani	“Forgive me for asking; but is it the lady’s time of the month?” . . . Little secret smiles appearing on the faces of the lady wrestlers. [MASK], nodding affably: “Yes. Don’t be so embarrassed, old chap.

Eddie	Kalidas	[MASK] had a head of silver hair and a nose like an eagle. I thought he was wonderful. “Do you really know scandals?” I asked him; but all he said was, “Son, if I told, they would make your ears bum.”

Viceroy	Wavell	In which the viceroy, [MASK], understood that he was finished, washed-up, or in our own expressive word, funtoosh. (Which, of course, in fact only speeded things up, because it let in the last of the viceroys, who ...)

Feeling	Saleem	Feeling! The icy touch of water kept cool in earthenware surahis, the cracked soreness of parched-raw lips, silver-and-lapis clenched in a fist ... “I can feel!” [MASK] cried to the good-natured crowd.

The Catcher in the Rye	Monkey	And it was [MASK] who, by answering a certain wrong-number telephone call, began the process of events which led to my accident in a white washing-chest made of slatted wood. Already, at the age of nearlynine, I knew this much: everybody was waiting for me.

Billy-goat	Ayooba	[MASK] roars with nervous relief: “The old billy-goat! Couldn’t keep his hands off the local women! Come on, buddha, don’t let him catch you, he’ll slice off both your cucumbers!”

Mister	Bulls	Then with my few pice I have taken a bus into the country to dig for herbs, with which your manhood could be awakened from its sleep . .. imagine, mister, I have spoken magic with these words: ‘Herb thou hast been uprooted by [MASK]!’

Ponyboy	Naseem	here there were diamonds freezing in her lashes . . . “He was the type that gives anarchists a bad name.” “All right,” [MASK] conceded, “so you’ve got a good chance of landing a good job.

Zulfikar	Rawalpindi	[MASK] speeding past us at seventy m.p.h. Motorcycles in front of us beside us behind us. “Where are we going Zulfy-uncle?” Wait and see. Black smoked-windowed limousine pausing at darkened house. Sentries guard the door with crossed rifles; which part, to let us through.

Hugh	Aadam	But then [MASK] had added, “Just let this divorce of his fade away for a year or two; then we’ll give this house its first wedding, with a big marquee in the garden, and singers and sweetmeats and all.”

Daisy	Parvati	But last night only you said you wouldn’t—and why you haven’t told me all these days, weeks, months . . . ?” I look at her sadly, and remind her that I have already mentioned the death of my poor [MASK], which was not a natural death . . .

My mother	Amina	Nobody ever took pains the way [MASK] did. Dark of skin, glowing of eye, my mother was by nature the most meticulous person on earth. Assiduously, she arranged flowers in the corridors and rooms of the Old Delhi house; carpets were selected with infinite care.

Martha	Amina	Their eyelids opening-and-closing alternately, they observed my icy blueness; but there was not the slightest tremor; until [MASK] took matters into her own hands and reached into the cradle to stroke my eyelids downwards. They closed: my breathing altered, instantly, to the contented rhythms of sleep.

"A son, who will never be older than his motherland—neither older nor younger."	Sahiba	(Was that how?) Beginning, “A son .. . such a son!” And then it comes, “A son, [MASK], who will never be older than his motherland—neither older nor younger.”

Mister	Padma	Who, direct as ever, demanded, “You, mister: what you want?” “Me!” [MASK] is yelling, excited and a little embarrassed by the memory. “Of course, who else? Me me me!”

The-witch	Parvati	Why do I say that?—Because it must be true; because what followed, followed; because it is my belief that [MASK]-the-witch became pregnant in order to invalidate my only defense against marrying her. But I shall only describe, and leave analysis to posterity.

Gertrude	Tai	“He talks to people who are not there,” she whispered loudly while he wandered through the room sucking his teeth, “How he calls out, whatsitsname! In the middle of the night!” And she mimicked him: “Ho, [MASK]?

Ponyboy	Saleem	He, young-[MASK]-then, was afraid of an idea—the idea that his parents’ outrage might lead to a withdrawal of their love; that even if they began to believe him, they would see his gift as a kind of shameful deformity . . .

Snake	Schaapsteker	[MASK], from the depths of his senility, instructed me in life. “Be wise, child. Imitate the action of the snake. Be secret; strike from the cover of a bush.” Once he said: “You must think of me as another father.

Cousin	Zafar	Damn me if I’ll have a coward for a son . . The enuresis of my cousin [MASK] continued, however, to be the shame of his family; despite thrashings, the liquid ran down his leg; and one day it happened when he was awake.

I	Padma	“No,” I refuse. “I have work to do.” And I see a look pass between [MASK] and someone; and I see that I’ve been right to be suspicious. Because I’ve been tricked by offers of picnics once before!

Phyllis	Mary	And was [MASK] blameless or not? Did her inability to go to church—because in churches you found confessionals, and in confessionals secrets could not be kept—turn sour inside her and make her a little sharp, a little hurtful?

Pigmentation	Europeans	I should say, in all honesty, that although he pretended to be worried by his transformation into a white man, and went to see doctors and so forth, he was secretly rather pleased when they failed to explain the problem or prescribe a cure, because he had long envied [MASK] their pigmentation.

""	Padma	On April 6th, 1919, the holy city of Amritsar smelled (gloriously, [MASK], celestially!) of excrement. And perhaps the (beauteous!) reek did not offend the Nose on my grandfather’s face—after all, Kashmiri peasants used it, as described above, for a kind of plaster.

Marriage	Padma	Of late, in spite of my stoic fatalism about the spreading cracks, I have smelled, on [MASK]’s breath, the dream of an alternative (but impossible) future; ignoring the implacable finalities of inner fissures, she has begun to exude the bitter-sweet fragrance of hope-for-marriage.

Yara	Ayooba	[MASK], yara!” and began to giggle. The child-soldiers awaited the howl of mortified anguish which would be the sign that their vacuous tracker had begun to piss, allowing electricity to mount the golden stream and sting him in his numb and urchinrubbing hosepipe.

Ponyboy	Parvati	Crowd-eyes staring. [MASK] pushing towards him. “Listen, it must be you!” She is gripping his elbow. Saucer eyes searching milky blue. “My God, that nose, I’m not being rude, but of course!

""	Shaheed	[MASK], fulfilling his father’s dearest wish, had finally earned his name; but the buddha could still not remember his own. How the buddha regained his name: Once, long ago, on another independence day, the world had been saffron and green.

Gertrude	Tai	Glint of gold. And—at last!—speech. “How old? You ask how old, you little wet-head, you nosey . . .” [MASK], forecasting the fisherman on my wall, pointed at the mountains. “So old, nakkoo!”

Joseph	Mary	“That one,” [MASK] said, “What does she know about this politics-politics? Only to get her nails into my Joseph she will repeat any rubbish he talks, like one stupid mynah bird. I swear, Father . . .”

Pete	Begum	Clusters of children assailed my mother as she descended; she, who could never shoo away a fly, handed out small coins, thus enlarging the crowd enormously. Eventually, she struggled away from them and headed down the street; there was a boy pleading, “Gib the car poliss, [MASK]?

The World War	Naseem	On the day the World War ended, [MASK] developed the longed-for headache. Such historical coincidences have littered, and perhaps befouled, my family’s existence in the world. He hardly dared to look at what was framed in the hole in the sheet.

Mama	Naseem	Finally they leave, and [MASK] unleashes two sentences before clamping her lips obstinately shut. “You are a mad man. I want more lime water.” My grandfather opens the windows, turns to his bride. “The smoke will take time to go; I will take a walk.

Durga	Aadam	Durga the dhoban agreed to take my son with her to the dhobighat: [MASK] spent the day observing how power was thrashed out of the clothes of the well-to-do and absorbed by the succubus-woman.

Sally	Jamila	[MASK] smiled sweetly and agreed . . . she was growing out of scrawny tomboy youth into a slender, slant-eyed, golden-skinned beauty whose hair was nearly long enough to sit on; even her nose looked good.

Billy	Rashid	[MASK] applied the brakes and flung himself into the cornfield, running—FULL-TILT!—at the unsuspecting cattlemen, his guns cocked and ready. As he neared their campfire he released his “yell of hate” to frighten them, yaaaaaaaa!

""	Padma	Fresh snail-tracks on [MASK]’s cheeks. Obliged to attempt some sort of “There, there,” I resort to movie-trailers. (How I loved them at the old Metro Club Club! O smacking of lips at the sight of the title NEXT ATTRACTION, superimposed on undulating blue velvet!

Sister	Sonny	As I’ve said, my sister, bom second and unheralded, had begun to react violently to any declarations of affection. Although she was believed to speak the languages of birds and cats, the soft words of lovers roused in her an almost animal rage; but [MASK] was too simple to be warned off.

Gertrude	Begum	I watch car until you come, [MASK]? I very fine watchman, ask anyone!” ... In some panic, I listened in for her reply. How could I get out of this boot under the eyes of a guardian-urchin?

Christ	Aziz	He just came up here to live it up a little.” Mesmerized by this brandied portrait of a bald, gluttonous Christ, [MASK] listened, later repeating every word to the consternation of his parents, who dealt in stones and had no time for “gas.”

Johnny	Methwold	He had a head of thick black brilliantined hair, parted in the center. We shall speak again of this center-parting, whose ramrod precision made [MASK] irresistible to women, who felt unable to prevent themselves wanting to rumple it up ...

Theodore	Saleem	What [MASK] was concerned with: not public upheaval, but personal rehabilitation. You see the paradox—my most crucial foray into history up to that moment was inspired by the most parochial of motives. Anyway, it was not “my” country—or not then.

Mosque	Parvati	And all this, in a series of extraordinary night-time displays, she revealed to me beneath the walls of the Mosque—but still she was not happy. As ever, I am obliged to accept responsibility; the scent of mournfulness which hung around [MASK]-the-witch was my creation.

Sis	Sonny	“. . . Weeeelll... I. . . okay, but you talk to your sis also, yah?” “I’ll talk, [MASK]. What can I promise? You know what she’s like. But I’ll talk to her for sure.”

Nose	Bergerac!—whose	And his nose? What did that look like? Prominent? Yes, it must have been, the legacy of a patrician French grandmother—from [MASK] blood ran aquamarinely in his veins and darkened his courtly charm with something crueller, some sweet murderous shade of absinthe.

Mercurochrome	Naseem	Trampled bodies have been left where they fell. He is bandaging wounds, daubing them liberally with Mercurochrome, which makes them look bloodier than ever, but at least disinfects them. Finally he returns to his hotel room, his clothes soaked in red stains, and [MASK] commences a panic.

Treason	Zafar	and I understood that his voice—that voice filled with power and decision and the rich timbre of my aunt’s finest cooking—was speaking a thing for which we knew only one word:, treason. I’m proud to say I kept my head; but [MASK] lost control of a more embarrassing organ.

The nuclear physicist	Dubash	“What’s this now?” The nuclear physicist [MASK] possessed a beautiful marble statuette—a female nude—and with the help of this figurine, his son would give expert lectures on female anatomy to an audience of sniggering boys.

Said	Hajis	A strong man also. His beard was thick and red—and annoyed his mother, who said only [MASK], men who had made the pilgrimage to Mecca, should grow red beards. His hair, however, was rather darker. His sky-eyes you know about.

