Caliban	BLAKE	But for another gives its ease And builds a heaven in hell's despair. . . . . . . . Love seeketh only self to please, To bind another to its delight, Joys in another's loss of ease, And builds a hell in heaven's despite." --W. [MASK]:

Elizabeth	Caleb	It came from the pressure of various feelings, in which there was much affection and some vexation. She wiped it away quickly, saying-- "Few men besides you would think it a duty to add to their anxieties in that way, [MASK]."

Bill	Ladislaw	I should have got the ear of the people by-and-by--but they didn't give me time. I should have gone into the Bill by-and-by, you know," he added, glancing at [MASK].

Emily	Will	Failure after long perseverance is much grander than never to have a striving good enough to be called a failure." "I quite agree with you," said [MASK], determined to change the situation--"so much so that I have made up my mind not to run that risk of never attaining a failure.

""	Dorothea	"I hope you are thoroughly satisfied with our stay--I mean, with the result so far as your studies are concerned," said [MASK], trying to keep her mind fixed on what most affected her husband. "

Daisy	Rosamond	"You must learn to take my judgment on questions you don't understand. I have made necessary arrangements, and they must be carried out. As to friends, I have no expectations whatever from them, and shall not ask them for anything." [MASK] sat perfectly still.

""	Alfred	"I am not fond of a schoolroom: I like the outside world better. It is a very inconvenient fault of mine." "It must be very stupid to be always in a girls' school," said [MASK].

""	Tim	He answered-- "If you don't think well of me, [MASK], never mind; that's neither here nor there now. Things may be bad for the poor man--bad they are; but I want the lads here not to do what will make things worse for themselves.

Draco	Jeffreys	Severity is all very well, but it's a great deal easier when you've got somebody to do it for you. You have a soft place in your heart yourself, you know--you're not a Draco, a [MASK], that sort of thing."

""	Dorothea	How is that? I should have expected you to be very sensitive to the beautiful everywhere." "I suppose I am dull about many things," said [MASK], simply. "I should like to make life beautiful--I mean everybody's life.

Lady Bracknell	Will	It did not occur to her to sit down, and [MASK] did not give a cheerful interpretation to this queenly way of receiving him; but he went on to say what he had made up his mind to say. "I fear you think me foolish and perhaps wrong for coming back so soon.

""	Dorothea	"I wish I knew all about her!" said [MASK]. "I wonder how she bore the change from wealth to poverty: I wonder whether she was happy with her husband! Do you know much about them?" "

Martha	Mary	To him it was like the cessation of an ache that [MASK] could laugh at him, and with a passive sort of smile he tried to reach her hand; but she slipped away quickly towards the door and said, "I shall tell uncle.

Mr. Darcy	Susan	At last he said-- "That would have made me very proud and happy, [MASK], and I should have been glad for your sake. I've always felt that your belongings have never been on a level with you. But you took me, though I was a plain man."

""	Rosamond	" "Are you beginning to dislike slang, then?" said [MASK], with mild gravity. "Only the wrong sort. All choice of words is slang. It marks a class." "There is correct English: that is not slang.

Mr. Darcy	Mary	He had that withered sort of paleness which will sometimes come on young faces, and his hand was very cold when she shook it. [MASK] too was agitated; she was conscious that fatally, without will of her own, she had perhaps made a great difference to

Pope	Dorothea	Has he ever persisted in anything except from contradiction? In knowledge he has always tried to be showy at small cost. In religion he could be, as long as it suited him, the facile echo of [MASK]'s vagaries. When was sciolism ever dissociated from laxity?

""	Mary	"How can you say he is quite right, [MASK]? I thought you had more sense of religion." "He is not fit to be a clergyman." "But he ought to be fit."--"Well, then, he is not what he ought to be.

Mr. Lorry	Lydgate	That would be a measure which you would recommend?" "Oh yes," said [MASK], falling backward in his chair, with ill-repressed impatience under the banker's pale earnest eyes and intense preoccupation with himself.

Emma	Edward	"Are you ill, [MASK]?" she said, rising immediately. "I felt some uneasiness in a reclining posture. I will sit here for a time." She threw wood on the fire, wrapped herself up, and said, "You would like me to read to you?"

Elizabeth	Rosamond	She was beginning to fear that she should not be able to suppress herself enough to the end of this meeting, and while her hand was still resting on [MASK]'s lap, though the hand underneath it was withdrawn, she was struggling against her own rising sobs.

""	Fred	"Heyday, miss!" he said at last, "you have a fine color. Where's [MASK]?" "Seeing about the horses. He will be in presently." "Sit down, sit down.

Penny	Dorothea	You are young, and need not to extend your life by watching." When the kind quiet melancholy of that speech fell on [MASK]'s ears, she felt something like the thankfulness that might well up in us if we had narrowly escaped hurting a lamed creature.

Pip	Rosamond	But he did wish to spare her as much as he could, and her tears cut him to the heart. He could not speak again immediately; but [MASK] did not go on sobbing: she tried to conquer her agitation and wiped away her tears, continuing to look before her at the mantel-piece.

Fortuna	Caesar	Even [MASK]'s fortune at one time was, but a grand presentiment. We know what a masquerade all development is, and what effective shapes may be disguised in helpless embryos.--In fact, the world is full of hopeful analogies and handsome dubious eggs called possibilities.

Mr. Woodhouse	Joseph	thank you--going at half-a-crown, this characteristic fender; and I have particular information that the antique style is very much sought after in high quarters. Three shillings--three-and-sixpence--hold it well up, [MASK]!

Pip	Will	And what is that to you?" It was in [MASK]'s nature that the first spark it threw out was a direct answer of the question and a challenge of the consequences. To have said, "What is that to you?"

Mr. Darcy	Lydgate	Besides, he was a likable man: sweet-tempered, ready-witted, frank, without grins of suppressed bitterness or other conversational flavors which make half of us an affliction to our friends. [MASK] liked him heartily, and wished for his friendship.

I	Fred	"Oh, about five or six times." "I think you had some good reason for giving up the habit of going there?" "Yes. You know all about it," said [MASK], not liking to be catechised in this way.

Dr. Jekyll	Lydgate	But in this doubtful stage of [MASK]'s introduction he was helped by what we mortals rashly call good fortune. I suppose no doctor ever came newly to a place without making cures that surprised somebody--cures which may be called fortune's testimonials, and deserve as much credit as the written or printed kind.

""	Lydgate	"Yes, at some stages," said [MASK], lifting his brows and smiling, while he began to arrange his microscope. "But a better order will begin after." "Soon?" said the Vicar. "I hope so, really.

Elizabeth	Mary	A certain change in [MASK]'s face was chiefly determined by the resolve not to show any change. "Does that always make people fall in love?" she answered, carelessly; "it seems to me quite as often a reason for detesting each other."

Lady Macbeth	Dorothea	"Oh, madam, let me bring you a little something?" "No; I am not well. Get everything ready in my dressing room, but pray do not disturb me again." [MASK] sat almost motionless in her meditative struggle, while the evening slowly deepened into night.

repentance	Providence	But today a repentance had come which was of a bitterer flavor, and a threatening [MASK] urged him to a kind of propitiation which was not simply a doctrinal transaction. The divine tribunal had changed its aspect for him; self-prostration was no longer enough, and he must bring restitution in his hand.

Aunt Bulstrode	Rosamond	While her aunt Bulstrode, who had a sisterly faithfulness towards her brother's family, had two sincere wishes for [MASK]--that she might show a more serious turn of mind, and that she might meet with a husband whose wealth corresponded to her habits. CHAPTER XVII.

""	Timothy	"That war all we war arter." "Well, promise me not to meddle again, and I'll see that nobody informs against you." "I'n ne'er meddled, an' I'n no call to promise," said [MASK]. "

Billy	Dollop	By what I can understan', they could take every penny off him, if they went to lawing." "No such thing!" said the barber, who felt himself a little above his company at [MASK]'s, but liked it none the worse.

""	Will	How could he dream of her defying the barrier that her husband had placed between them?--how could she ever say to herself that she would defy it? [MASK]'s certainty as the carriage grew smaller in the distance, had much more bitterness in it.

The Captain	Lydgate	But when we do what we have done before, it is often with a difference. [MASK] was still angry, and had not forgotten his point. "I shall tell the Captain that he ought to have known better than offer you his horse," he said, as he moved away.

Spooner	Ben	But this latter argument, obscuring the majesty of the former, was one too many, for [MASK] answered contemptuously, "The more spooneys they!" and immediately appealed to his mother whether boys were not better than girls.

John	Fred	And then his behavior to you, father, is really good; he has a deep respect for you; and it is impossible to have a better temper than [MASK] has." "Ay, ay; you want to coax me into thinking him a fine match."

Elizabeth	Dorothea	No, I do not yet refuse," said [MASK], in a clear voice, the need of freedom asserting itself within her; "but it is too solemn--I think it is not right--to make a promise when I am ignorant what it will bind me to.

Martha	Fred	"If your mamma is afraid that [MASK] will make me an offer, tell her that I would not marry him if he asked me. But he is not going to do so, that I am aware. He certainly never has asked me."

Mr. Darcy	Lydgate	[MASK] was as polite as he could be in his offhand way, but politeness in a man who has placed you at a disadvantage is only an additional exasperation, especially if he happens to have been an object of dislike beforehand.

By Jove!	Rigg	Honor bright! I'll go like a bullet, _by_ Jove!" "Mind," said [MASK], drawing out a bunch of keys, "if I ever see you again, I shan't speak to you.

Darcy	Dorothea	Think about it, you know." When [MASK] had left him, he reflected that he had certainly spoken strongly: he had put the risks of marriage before her in a striking manner. It was his duty to do so.

Mr. Pumblechook	Dorothea	He was surprised, but his surprise only issued in a few moments' silence, during which he pushed about various objects on his writing-table, and finally stood with his back to the fire, his glasses on his nose, looking at the address of [MASK]'s letter.

""	Lydgate	"The world has been too strong for _me_, I know," he said one day to [MASK]. "But then I am not a mighty man--I shall never be a man of renown.

Mrs. Dalloway	Rosamond	"Oh, in the evening. Of course I shall not mention the subject to mamma." [MASK] was convinced that no woman could behave more irreproachably than she was behaving; and she went to sit down at her work-table.

Daisy	Caleb	"I am glad that you arrived just in time to find me here. I know you count your minutes." "Oh," said [MASK], gently, with a slow swing of his head on one side, as he seated himself and laid his hat on the floor.

""	Rosy	However, you have come back safely," he said, at last, in a decisive tone. "You will not go again, [MASK]; that is understood. If it were the quietest, most familiar horse in the world, there would always be the chance of accident.

Darcy	Lydgate	His school studies had not much modified that opinion, for though he "did" his classics and mathematics, he was not pre-eminent in them. It was said of him, that [MASK] could do anything he liked, but he had certainly not yet liked to do anything remarkable.

Mr. Pumblechook	Fred	"He was not playing, then?" [MASK] had not meant to tell this, but he was obliged now to say, "Yes, he was. But I suppose it was an accidental thing. I have never seen him there before."

Dorothea	Dorothea	But through certain sensibilities [MASK] was as quick as he, and seeing her face change, he added, immediately, "But it is quite true that the best minds have been sometimes overstrained in working out their ideas."

Mr. Lorry	Bulstrode	Have you the money with you?" "No, I have one hundred," said [MASK], feeling the immediate riddance too great a relief to be rejected on the ground of future uncertainties. "I will forward you the other if you will mention an address."

Pip	Celia	[MASK], whose mind had never been thought too powerful, saw the emptiness of other people's pretensions much more readily. To have in general but little feeling, seems to be the only security against feeling too much on any particular occasion.

Lizzy	Lydgate	As to getting very closely united to him, I am not fond enough of him for that. But what was the other thing you meant?" said [MASK], who was nursing his leg as comfortably as possible, and feeling in no great need of advice.

Love	Olympian	Let the high Muse chant loves [MASK]: We are but mortals, and must sing of man. An eminent philosopher among my friends, who can dignify even your ugly furniture by lifting it into the serene light of science, has shown me this pregnant little fact.

""	Fred	And the strongest slang of all is the slang of poets." "You will say anything, [MASK], to gain your point." "Well, tell me whether it is slang or poetry to call an ox a leg-plaiter."

""	Celia	We need discuss them no longer. There--take away your property." [MASK] felt a little hurt. There was a strong assumption of superiority in this Puritanic toleration, hardly less trying to the blond flesh of an unenthusiastic sister than a Puritanic persecution. "

Mrs. Pocket	Mary	"What business had she to go away?" He spoke in the same tone when [MASK] came. "Why couldn't you sit still here till I told you to go? I want my waistcoat now. I told you always to put it on the bed."

Billy	Caleb	" [MASK]'s wrath was stirred, and he said, indignantly-- "Why should I have said it if I didn't mean it? I am in no fear of you. Such tales as that will never tempt my tongue."

Dorothy	Will	She was not aware how long it was before she answered. She had turned her head and was looking out of the window on the rose-bushes, which seemed to have in them the summers of all the years when [MASK] would be away.

Elizabeth	Bulstrode	He rose and gave his arm to [MASK], and in that way led him out of the room; yet this act, which might have been one of gentle duty and pure compassion, was at this moment unspeakably bitter to him.

Sally	Naumann	No; nonsense, [MASK]! English ladies are not at everybody's service as models. And you want to express too much with your painting. You would only have made a better or worse portrait with a background which every connoisseur would give a different reason for or against.

Lady Catherine	Bulstrode	"You have been led to this, I apprehend, by some slanders concerning me uttered by that unhappy creature," said [MASK], anxious now to know the utmost. "That is true. I can't deny that I act upon what I heard from him."

Mr. Darcy	Dorothea	You may go any length in that sort of thing, and nothing may come of it, you know." [MASK]'s eyes also were turned up to her husband's face with some anxiety at the idea that those who saw him afresh after absence might be aware of signs which she had not noticed.

Daisy	Will	"You are too young--it is an anachronism for you to have such thoughts," said [MASK], energetically, with a quick shake of the head habitual to him. "You talk as if you had never known any youth.

Emily	Will	[MASK] never quite knew how it was that he saved himself from falling down at her feet, when the "long while" came forth with its gentle tremor. He used to say that the horrible hue and surface of her crape dress was most likely the sufficient controlling force.

Emily	Rosamond	They did not think of sitting down, but stood at the toilet-table near the window while [MASK] took off her hat, adjusted her veil, and applied little touches of her finger-tips to her hair--hair of infantine fairness, neither flaxen nor yellow.

Gertrude	Pray	I have been uneasy about these cameos. [MASK] sit down and look at them." "I am not particularly knowing, but there can be no great mistake about these little Homeric bits: they are exquisitely neat. And the color is fine: it will just suit you."

Mr. Pip	Dorothea	But he went away without telling [MASK] what he had put into the letter, for she was engaged with her husband, and--in fact, these things were of no importance to her. CHAPTER XXXI. How will you know the pitch of that great bell Too large for you to stir?

Eliza	Dorothea	For an instant he felt that the struggle, was causing a queer contortion of his mobile features, but with a good effort he resolved it into nothing more offensive than a merry smile. [MASK] wondered; but the smile was irresistible, and shone back from her face too.

Pip	Dorothea	"Whatever you do in the end, [MASK], you should really keep back at present, and not volunteer any meddling with this Bulstrode business. We don't know yet what may turn up. You must agree with me?"

Marianne	Bulstrode	Even the more definite scandal concerning [MASK]'s earlier life was, for some minds, melted into the mass of mystery, as so much lively metal to be poured out in dialogue, and to take such fantastic shapes as heaven pleased.

Dolores	Lydgate	Remember it is a mere security: it will make no difference: it is a temporary affair. I insist upon it that your father shall not know, unless I choose to tell him," added [MASK], with a more peremptory emphasis.

""	Lydgate	The broken metaphor and bad logic of motive which had stirred his hearer's contempt were quite consistent with a mode of putting the facts which made it difficult for [MASK] to vent his own indignation and disappointment. After some rapid reflection, he only asked-- "

Mr. Micawber	Raffles	The bill was heavy, and since [MASK] had no luggage with him, it seemed probable that he had left his portmanteau behind in payment, in order to save money for his travelling fare; for his purse was empty, and he had only a couple of sixpences and some loose pence in his pockets.

Mrs. Reed	Dorothea	Pride was broken down between these two. "We were talking about your husband," [MASK] said, with some timidity. "I thought his looks were sadly changed with suffering the other day. I had not seen him for many weeks before.

Gentry	Dorothea	The country gentry of old time lived in a rarefied social air: dotted apart on their stations up the mountain they looked down with imperfect discrimination on the belts of thicker life below. And [MASK] was not at ease in the perspective and chilliness of that height.

Mrs. Pendleton	Lucy	But they'll get no money from me, I know. Let _his_ family help him. I never did like that marriage. But it's no use talking. Ring the bell for lemons, and don't look dull any more, [MASK].

Sally	Rosamond	said [MASK], turning her eyes on him again. That little speech of four words, like so many others in all languages, is capable by varied vocal inflections of expressing all states of mind from helpless dimness to exhaustive argumentative perception, from the completest self-devoting fellowship to the most neutral aloofness.

Dolores	Lydgate	[MASK] gave a short laugh. "I think it is I who should exact a promise that you will do nothing without telling me," he said, turning his eyes sharply upon her, and then moving to the door.

Alice	Lydgate	"That might do if I had my old trust in myself," said [MASK], mournfully. "Nothing galls me more than the notion of turning round and running away before this slander, leaving it unchecked behind me.

John	Caleb	"There's no other wish come into it since things have been going on as they have been of late?" ([MASK] meant a great deal in that vague phrase;) "because, better late than never.

Mr. Lorry	Bulstrode	For a few moments there was total silence, while every man in the room was looking at [MASK]. He sat perfectly still, leaning hard against the back of his chair; he could not venture to rise, and when he began to speak he pressed his hands upon the seat on each side of him.

""	Dorothea	Nothing in the will." [MASK]'s lip quivered. "Come, you must not think of these things yet, my dear. By-and-by, you know." "I am quite well now, uncle; I wish to exert myself."

Dickens	Ivanhoe	I have bought one of his works myself--a very nice thing, a very superior publication, entitled '[MASK].' You will not get any writer to beat him in a hurry, I think--he will not, in my opinion, be speedily surpassed.

Patience	Aristotle	I have insisted to him on what [MASK] has stated with admirable brevity, that for the achievement of any work regarded as an end there must be a prior exercise of many energies or acquired facilities of a secondary order, demanding patience.

Elizabeth	Dorothea	"I think it was you who were first hasty in your false suppositions about my feeling," said [MASK], in the same tone. The fire was not dissipated yet, and she thought it was ignoble in her husband not to apologize to her.

Dr. Lytton	Raffles	But he immediately threw himself into the consideration of the patient, and inquired strictly into all that had occurred. [MASK] was worse, would take hardly any food, was persistently wakeful and restlessly raving; but still not violent.

Mr. Darcy	Lydgate	" "You want to decide whether you should give a generous support to the Hospital," said [MASK]. "I cannot conscientiously advise you to do it in dependence on any activity of mine. I may be obliged to leave the town."

Pip	Bulstrode	But I must at least claim to know the worst that he has told you. I must know what is the foul speech that I am liable to be the victim of," said [MASK], a certain amount of anger beginning to mingle with his humiliation before this quiet man who renounced his benefits.

Billy	Grey	"If everybody pulled for his own bit against everybody else, the whole question would go to tatters." "Yes, yes, I agree with you--I quite take that point of view. I should put it in that light. I should support [MASK], you know.

George	Humphrey	They say, when he was a little boy, he made an abstract of 'Hop o' my Thumb,' and he has been making abstracts ever since. Ugh! And that is the man [MASK] goes on saying that a woman may be happy with."

Mr. Pumblechook	Solomon	Here he pressed his lips together, and frowned meditatively. "Might anybody ask what their brother has been saying?" said [MASK], in a soft tone of humility, in which he had a sense of luxurious cunning, he being a rich man and not in need of it.

Pip	Will	They stood silent, not looking at each other, but looking at the evergreens which were being tossed, and were showing the pale underside of their leaves against the blackening sky. [MASK] never enjoyed the prospect of a storm so much: it delivered him from the necessity of going away.

John	Lydgate	" burst out [MASK], rising from his chair, thrusting his hands in his pockets and stalking away from the hearth; "it's not a question of liking. Of course, I don't like it; it's the only thing I can do."

Elizabeth	Dorothea	"I prefer always reading what you like best to hear," said [MASK], who told the simple truth; for what she dreaded was to exert herself in reading or anything else which left him as joyless as ever.

Cameo	Dorothea	She is a great pet and never was naughty in her life. I found out before I came away that she wanted me to buy her some cameos, and I should be sorry for them not to be good--after their kind." [MASK] added the last words with a smile.

