Laura	Pm	Once he had accomplished the awful struggle of winning himself, once he turned from it to winning her, he began to see her (through a slightly champagne-colored haze) as wondrously desirable. “Probably I’ll kick myself tomorrow. I don’t care! [MASK] glad I’m going to have her!

Wuthering	Lord	They came to an estate, high-walled, with deer to be seen through grilled gates, and the twisted Tudor chimneys of a great house visible beyond a jungle of pines. “Oh, [MASK], is this the place?”

Monsieur	Mathieu	He had been uncomfortably impressed by the fact that [MASK], his customary room-waiter at the Grand Universel, a fat, curly-haired, and unctuous person with fascinatingly different spots on his dress-suit lapels every day, spoke English so perfectly.

""	Fran	“----and I wish you could meet him. He would give you everything inside on motor industry here. But I have not the honor to know him. I have just seen him in a Gesellschaft." “We must hurry!” said [MASK].

""	Fran	If [MASK] and I did drift apart and I couldn’t find some kind of security elsewhere, I wouldn’t regard it as any virtue, but simply as an inability to face things as they are-” “Ah hah! A year ago you wouldn’t have admitted that!

Hemingway	Dickens	“----were ignorant as Hottentots and killed each other with revolvers whenever they felt like it, with no recourse. In fact, every American that [MASK] shows in the book is a homicidal idiot, except one—and he wanted to live abroad! Well!

""	Fran	— who did not acknowledge it. You are a play—author and heroine and actor, every one together. A great play. But you could never just cook for some man.” “Why should I?” demanded [MASK].

John	Fran	He sauntered up to the smoking-room for his first cocktail aboard, feeling very glossy and handsome and much-traveled. Then he was feeling very lonely, for the smoking-room was filled with amiable-looking people who apparently all knew one another. And he knew nobody aboard save [MASK].

Martha	Kurt	But tonight she led the expedition, she thought of everything, and he felt helpless as a maiden aunt. He had a new respect for her. . . . Perhaps, with [MASK], she wouldn’t be a child any longer, but grasp reality.

""	Fran	By himself, he would doubtless have registered and taken meekly whatever room was given him. But [MASK] insisted on seeing their suite, and they found it a damp, streaked apartment looking on a sunless courtyard. “Oh, this won’t do at all!”

Ponyboy	Emily	In this most Italian Italy he might without apology still be a most American American. Light seemed to be woven into the very texture of his face that these months past had been heavy and lifeless and unhealthily flushed; and his eyes flickered as of old they had in talk with his daughter [MASK].

Gerty	Matey	Well, you’re not going to get away with hogging them much longer. [MASK] and I have finally decided about time we ran over and had a look at the old country and get a decent drink. She’s a grand wife and likes her likker.

""	Fran	He went to the drawn window blinds. “Blinds getting cracked. Need new ones,” he said aloud. He looked about again, and shivered. He went to the bed in which [MASK] had always slept, and stood staring at it.

Mrs. Pocket	Kurt	of his dear funny old servant then I thought maybe it was because she has such an elementary kitchen equipment, honestly it was about what you would expect in [MASK]’s native wilds a frightful old coal stove that she has to stoke up all the time and the flues do not draw.

Ponyboy	Sam	[MASK] was raised to a quivering sensitiveness toward all of them. He was not drunk, certainly, but after two cocktails, half a bottle of champagne, and a cognac or two, he was released from his customary caution, his habitual concentration on his own affairs.

Butler	Chesterton	It’s like [MASK] says—if a fellow kicks his butler down-stairs, it doesn’t show any lack of democracy; it’s only when he feels too superior to his butler to touch him that he’s really snooty.

Mrs. Robinson	Sam	To the American man—except darlings like [MASK], here—a wife is only a convenience, like his motor, and if either one of them breaks down, he takes it to a garage and leaves it and goes off whistling!”

Prince	Kurt	But with no comment he read on: I have learned, and I must say with some surprise which has probably been good for my little ego that [MASK] thinks much more of a violinist or a chemist than of the nicest prince with the most quarteriest quarter-ings living.

""	Fran	Everything must break up immediately! Nobody else must be considered! The great I Am has spoken!” “[MASK]! I’m not going to lose my temper and let you enjoy a row tonight. ... At least I hope not!” “Go on!

Ponyboy	Fran	And through the bright-colored maelstrom of people, his heart aching with loneliness, he saw [MASK] move placidly, shin-ingly, man-conscious and man-conquering and at home. They were all one family; they took her in; but himself, how to get in he had no notion.

Mrs. Van Buren	Fran	He was not very well pleased to see that after twenty-four years of living with [MASK] he had not in the least come to know her. Always, particularly when they had first come abroad, he had considered her clearly superior to other American women.

Mrs. Pocket	Fran	He reflected that [MASK] had an unsurpassed show-window display but not much on the shelves inside. Then he was angry with himself; then he pitied her; then loved her for her childish shrillness of make-believe, her eagerness to be noticed and admired.

Daisy	Arnold	But he was Romance—probably my last—and certainly my first! You were always so good; I’ve admired you and respected you; but you’ve always been so sound, so cautious, whereas with [MASK] there was danger and excitement and madness

Tub	Sam	[MASK] produced something, chuckling, “Now this may just look like plain Methodist bootlegged corn to you, Tub, but remember you ain’t traveled expensively and got educated, the way I have. Say when. . . .

""	Edith	“You wondered,” said [MASK], perched on the wall, “whether I could stand a canoe trip, sleeping on the ground. What do you think of this orchard?” “Don’t quite see the connection.” “What do you think of it?

Daisy	Arnold	I never remember things and throw them up at you, as you do with me. You never understood about [MASK]. I didn’t defend myself when you were angry about him. But he was Romance—probably my last—and certainly my first!

Daisy	Fran	No! He went home, after tremendously cordial handshakings, more blissful about his new role of required adventurousness than ever before . . . and hoping that [MASK] would not say, “Did you have an agreeable time with the great American commercial intellects?” She would!

Daisy	Kurt	I figure that maybe it would have been a lot clearer-cut if one of us had been out-and-out hoggish and known what he wanted and just grabbed it. No. I’ll be all right. Good-bye.” [MASK] shook the proffered hand hesitatingly.

""	Fran	Of the Italian drive?” said [MASK]. “Yes. You see, my revered great-grandfather did so well out of cotton that he was rewarded with a peerage.” “And you’re so proud of it! That’s why you enjoy your mock humility.

""	Sam	I’ll be glad, though, when he feels easier with us and becomes his own real thoughtful self—when he understands that we’re not his ‘conscientious tourists’—imagine!—but the sort that-------” “Yeah, nice fella,” said [MASK].

De Penable	Fran	He saw, unhappily, that the Atkins and De Penable existence into which [MASK] had led him was not the realization of the “great life” for which he had yearned, but its very negation—the bustle, the little snobberies, the cheap little titles, the cheap little patronage of “art.”

His Lordship	Lockert	All this His Lordship, Her Grace, Old England, palatial mansion stuff is fine—I’ve enjoyed it—but you’re letting it dazzle you. You’re letting [MASK] be a whole lot too flirtatious. You’re off your track.

Ivan	Dear	[MASK], it’s because I do love you that----Do you think you’ll ever learn to enjoy leisure, to enjoy just being yourself and not an office? You’re not going to make me feel guilty for having dragged you away, are you?”

Ponyboy	Fran	You’ve never known what I wore, what flowers I put in your study, what sacrifices I made to cover up your awkwardnesses and help you keep your dull friends and your dull work and your dull reputation!” “[MASK]!” “Oh, I know!

Mama	Fran	Well, let’s go feed the old faces. Certainly is awful’ nice to have you folks here. We must see a lot of each other.” Not that [MASK] said anything rude at lunch. It would have been better so.

Sally	Fran	[MASK] stirred, sighed and, while he chuckled at her resemblance to a child trying to slip back into dreams, she furiously burrowed her eyes into the litde lacy pillow, which was crumpled with her determined sleeping. “No use,” he said.

Soldier	German	“Grand!” said the third, smaller, sharper-nosed man. “Perfect—except for the fact that he is obviously a soldier and----- I’m not quite sure about this, but I think he’s [MASK]!”

Mr. Darcy	Samuel	And what of it?” “Will you kindly stop sneering? You that are so fond of accusing me of sneering! And, my dear [MASK], you really don’t do it so very well! Delicate irony isn’t your long suit, my dear good man!”

""	Kurt	And this quiet sunset. Thank you, dear. . . . And thank you for not being a Tartar husband—for understanding that I can be excited and friendly with nice little people like [MASK] without being a hussy!” Just what was he to do?

Peggy	Sam	[MASK] drooped in his chair and watched them. “Nice she has somebody to play with already,” he insisted. And within three days she had a dozen men to “play with,” to dance and argue with, and race with around the deck.

""	Sam	Why, [MASK], I bet you can’t tell me what the color of the last curtains we had in the drawing-room at home was!” “They were—well, they were a kind-------- Now let’s see. They were pale red.”

Mrs. Robinson	But--------Well	And that it still matters to have a title. And I do know she makes me clumsy. [MASK], first place, I really am an old-fashioned believer in what we used to call the Home. I hate to see all the couples busting up the way they are.

Husk	Sam	The amiable lady who was going to “buy her” a second officer had, during [MASK]’s stay at the table, kissed one of the men, held the hand of another, and was now turning her withered excitement on himself: “Say, you’re some husk!

Emma	Fran	[MASK] dove into this attic drawer busily; she drew out the shell-box, and stood holding it. Her eyes were deep, pitiful, regretful, and all their defense was gone. He looked back at her, helpless.

""	Kurt	I’m not angry that [MASK] and you were out so late----” “Why should you be!” She tossed her gold and crimson evening wrap on the couch. “Dear! Listen! This is serious! I’ve come back to you, willing to do everything I can to make you happy.

He	Sam	She no longer noticed [MASK] when he mumbled, “There’s a lovely old stone church,” or “Guess those are hop poles”; when he wanted to hold her hand and tell her with quick little pressures that they were sharing the English countryside.

Mrs. Astor	Fran	He had once, after innumerous telephone calls, been invited by [MASK] to tea, and he had brought his Oklahoma-born wife up from the country and put on his rather antiquated morning coat and very new spats.

Daisy	Minna	“Oh, a fellow’s got to be loyal to his wife, and not go getting mixed up in a lot of complications.” But just now he seemed insufficiently afraid of “getting mixed up.” He caught himself noting that [MASK] had an exquisite body.

George	Sam	“That’s kind of hard on me, as one of the promoters of the American industrial system,” said [MASK]. “Oh, you, you old darling, you’re not really an industrialist at heart—you’re a researcher.”

""	Fran	You’ve never been interested in any other woman, have you?” “Not really.” “I wonder if you won’t be? I’m making a private bet with myself that after another six months of carrying [MASK]’s shawl, you’ll begin to look around.

""	Heaven	“No, he really is somebody. Dean of the American literary colony here—writes about French novelists and Austrian peasant furniture and Correggio and English hunting and [MASK] knows what all.” “But I don’t have to learn about peasant furniture, too, do I?”

Martha	Fran	Her only thought about anybody is what they give her! The world offers you sun and wind, and [MASK] offers you death, fear and death! Oh, I’d seen how you’ve aged five years in five minutes, after one of her complaining letters!

Bartender	Hurd	He stamped firmly across the floor, rang for a waiter, and ordered cocktails, ignoring her flashed fury, though he knew that he would have to pay for it afterward. But he did hope that [MASK] wouldn’t say, drinking, “Well, here’s looking at you, Chief!”

Mr. Darcy	Fran	At the dressing-hour, he said mildly to [MASK], “I wonder if we mightn’t have dinner here in our stateroom tonight? I want to talk about things. We’ve sort of avoided it.”

""	Fran	aPardon, Madame!” he said. “Theaters—modern films—cinemas—oh, whatever you call ’em----!” [MASK] slipped across the room to the bottle-green-and-golden dictionary on the flimsy desk.

Adolf	Sam	We Austrians are almost like you Americans in our fondness to call by the first name among people we like. Yes.” “Well, that’s mighty nice of you-” [MASK] wished that he could warm up.

Ponyboy	Brent	[MASK] was like a young race horse, his pale face and high thin forehead almost too bred-down, too refined. But there was health and buoyancy in his humorous eyes, his shout of “Hello, Dad! Swell to see you again.

Korn	Fran	[MASK], you look like a heaven’s angel in ivory! Korn’ mal!” He ushered them, as though they were royalty, into a small, shabby, friendly apartment in which three people seemed a crowd.

She	Fran	The change in their intimacy was never admitted, but it was definite. It was not that [MASK] was less attractive to him; indeed more than ever he valued her sleek smoothness; but she had become to him a nun, taboo, and any passion toward her was forbidden.

I	Sam	When I did all the packing and---------- [MASK], do you ever realize that it really wouldn’t injure your titanic industrial mind if you were occasionally just the least little bit thoughtful toward me, if you didn’t leave absolutely everything about the house and traveling for me to do?

Dally	Elsa	Poor kids! Of course they have to be conceited and supercilious, to keep their courage up, because they’re failures.” And again, “Yes, that’s all true, but I’ll find [MASK] again, and this time----” Chapter 28

He	Heaven	Of course he has—of course he’s had other affairs—perhaps lots of them! Thank [MASK] for that! He’s had some training in the arts of love. He understands women. He doesn’t think they’re merely business partners.

""	Kurt	And I have done the job that was first at hand! And I have loved my friends! And now I’m not going to stand back the rest of my life and be satisfied and dead—dead on my feet—dead! “I wish I’d known [MASK] before.

""	Fran	Their idea of a good time is just about that of a chorus - girl---” [MASK] had been inattentive. She wasn’t now. She snatched up a lace wrap, slapped it about her shoulders over her nightgown, and faced him, like a snarling white cat:

Ponyboy	Tub	I’ll bet I was up to eighteen miles an hour!” “Yeh! I’ll bet that some day automobiles’ll run forty!” [MASK] jeered. “Sure! Why, they’ll just about drive the poor old horse right off the highway!”

Mrs. Medlock	Fran	funny, I never can seem to remember her name— she’s frightfully clever, I’m sure, but I’ll bet she’d have paid twice as much for it.” The late September was cold even for mid-Atlantic. [MASK] smoothed the fur, draped it closer in her steamer-chair.

Laura	Fran	When he danced with [MASK] and she dutifully pointed out his roughness, he laughed. Always she had a genius for keeping herself superior to him by just the right comment on his clumsiness, the most delicate and needle-pointed comparison of him with defter men.

Daisy	Softened	[MASK], a bit motherly—or at least a bit sisterly—she comforted him, “You really would like to see him, wouldn’t you? Well then, let’s get him, by all means.” “No, this is your party.

Martha	Sam	At twilight, and at three in the morning, when he could sleep no longer and rose to smoke a cigarette, he heard her saying, “Oh, [MASK], I couldn’t have believed that you could ever become a dirty drunk like this!”

Bobby	Elsa	He became very gay, joyous with the thought of the secret they were sharing. But a slight check occurred to the flow of his confidences. [MASK] cooed, “Oh, excuse me just a moment, dear.

Mrs. Pocket	Fran	Just go back and say, “Look here, dear----” He wasn’t sure what he was to say after “Look here, dear,” but he would be ever so affectionate and convincing. He did love her! [MASK], with her eager eyes----

""	Hurd	I won’t be the ‘president’s little lady’ to that awful bunch of back-slapping salesmen!” “Now [MASK]’s a mighty good fellow! He’s cocky, and I don’t suppose he’s read a book since he used to look at the lingerie ads.

Bob	Sam	What about next Saturday evening?” “Fine. I’ll see if my wife has anything on.” “Well, I hope she has. Strict lot of police in this ole town! Ha, ha, ha, ha, ha!” [MASK] was not offended.

Mrs. Danvers	Kurt	And then lose her, after all-- What would [MASK] and she be doing while he was away? And this business of her having been such a devoted mother! Ever been a time when the children hadn’t had a nurse or a governess, with plenty of maids?

Dorothy	Sam	All the while [MASK] knew that she was waiting, that he was waiting and praying, for the telephone to ring. At their several party dinners they had met agreeable people who said, “You must come to us, soon!” and then forgot them blissfully.

""	Apparendy	For at the next table was an American party, full of merriment and keeping their brother from falling by setting an edifyingly bad example. There were three men, three women. [MASK] some of them were married to some of the others, but they seemed confused as to who was married to whom.

Lady Bracknell	Fran	All the women I talked to just looked like women. Why the devil don’t they wear their coronets? Honestly, [MASK], this is too rich for my blood. I can stand meeting a couple hundred people at once, but not the entire British aristocracy.

""	Sam	wearing my best pants!” “Well,” [MASK] soothed, “it’ll be better when you get out into the country.” “But I don’t like the country! Being a hick by origin, I like cities.

""	Sam	“But,” [MASK] reflected, “it isn’t real! It’s fiction! The whole thing, village and people and everything, is an English novel—and I’m in it! This is Chapter Two, and it’s lovely.

Sally	Minna	He could even question whether it wasn’t merely emotional indolence and fear of getting “mixed up,” not morality, which had kept him “pure.” Wasn’t it because he did want to kiss [MASK]’s wide derisive mouth that he was chilly to her, and contradicted everything she said . . .

Phooey	Sam	I don’t pretend to know everything, even about autos. I don’t need to. But I can-----” “And another thing, [MASK]. I do love you for wanting to produce something individual and lasting. But an American garden suburb----- Phooey!

""	Tub	It was she who opened the engagement when they were alone, at the hotel. “I’m sorry about [MASK], and I’ll go down there—a beastly journey!—if you absolutely insist----” “I never insist on anything.”

Penny	Sam	Human cash-register! I’m finished! I’m going!” But they heard from him only “Whoop you two more. Cards?” Chapter 4 IT WAS late when [MASK] yawned up to bed, for their poker-game had lasted till after one.

Mr. Darcy	Kurt	So we must get busy. If you’ll be so good as to order breakfast for us—and to shave!—which you decidedly need, if you’ll permit me to say so!—I’ll go down and have the concierge get your wagon lit and ticket. And I’ll telephone to [MASK].

""	Sam	So jealousy and a very earnest dislike of these supercilious young men came to help kill [MASK]’s reluctance. “Hang it,” he informed himself, “you can’t tell me she hasn’t been a little more than intimate with this Keipp rat!

The city	Fran	Details that once he would never have noticed became alive: hand-wrought iron balconies, baroque altars, tiled roofs, window shutters, copper pans in kitchens seen from the street. He began, shyly keeping it from [MASK], to sketch doorways.

Cathy	Kurt	Now he cursed her for disloyalty and in long unmoving silences reviewed her superciliousnesses, but the result was no stout resolution to be free, but sudden pity for her—a fear that she would be slighted by [MASK]’s family—a picture of her alone and friendless, crying at twilight.

""	Mavenex	And when I was a nice young devil of eight, you once chased me out of your orchard for stealing apples.” “Did I? Wouldn’t dare to now! [MASK]’ dance?” “Well----Let me see. Oh.

Gertrude	Fran	Perhaps the fact that his intimate life with [MASK] had not been very passionate had made him feel that the whole matter of sex stimulation was something rather shameful, to be avoided as far as possible. Certainly, when he tried to think about it, he escaped from thought with a gruff.

Ponyboy	Fran	And they were doing it! Such exultation filled him, such overwhelming tenderness, that he wanted to dash down to their cabin and assure himself that he still had the magic of [MASK]’s companionship. But he remembered with what irritable efficiency she had been unpacking.

ragged	Sam	In front of the taxicab, making [MASK]’s heart stop with fear, darted ragged small boys (quite cheerful, and illogically healthy); and on the flimsy iron balconies of fire-escapes sat mothers with hair dragging across their eyes, nursing babies who in between sups wailed against the unjust heat.

Bunny	Brent	And some day I’ll be in the hundred and fifty thousand a year class.” [MASK] said it with the modest confidence, the eager eyes, of a young poet announcing that he was going to write an epic.

Polylingual	Sam	“I do think it’s too gracious of you to take the word ‘gigolo,’ which I taught you in the first place--” “You did not!” “----and use it against me, my dear polylingual [MASK]!

Ponyboy	Fran	“-----could forget to send that wireless, and then you’re too self-satisfied even to be sorry about it---” “[MASK]!” His arm circled her; he led her to the window. “Look down there!

Dorothy	Emily	Why, after I heard the news about [MASK], I cried half the night, wanting to see her and the baby. But-----Oh, if I could only make you understand!” She had thrown off her flippancy and was naked and defenseless in her seriousness.

""	Dodsworth	I say [MASK] my cousin says you’re entirely wrong about hydraulic brakes I say won’t you come down to his place for the week-end awf’ly modest country cot sort of place he’d like awf’ly to have you no no tea thanks must run along forgive informality General’s a widower

Sylvia	Fran	Listen to me!” “That sounds better!” “Well, I mean----It is true with [MASK]. Partly. And partly she enjoys it—gets a kick out of it—feels she’s a heroine in a melodrama. . . .

Theodore	Sam	It was what any aged and semi-literate artist would do. Yet at this sensitive moment it was fascinating to [MASK], this picture of a young gallant, rather leggy in tights, bent over a young woman with a smile and a flowery hat, against a background of towers and roses.

""	Frenchmen	He was becoming acquainted with her and, sometimes, slightly, with himself. He saw little enough of [MASK] outside of hotel-servants, waiters, shopmen, but what he did see of them, what he saw of the surface of French life, puzzled him.

The clerk	Sam	The key is here,” said the clerk. Dismally, [MASK] followed the boy with his bag to the elevator. He sent the key back to the desk. He told himself that he did so because he was tired and might be asleep before she returned.

