""	Castillo	“They steal their children, yet had it not been for you, that child would have frozen,” I muttered as we settled down in our shelter. To this, [MASK] only grunted. “It is a savage custom that these pagans practice,” I continued.

""	Dorantes	Flanked by more than two score armed and painted Indi- ans came [MASK], hand in hand with another man. One Eye and the warriors of his clan slowly moved backwards as the band approached. The glaring sun hampered my vision, and the heated air danced, causing a distortion.

Gerald	Panfilo	the Governor forced the words out from between his whitened lips. “A half a year’s delay that cost us. And now you preach for more delay.” “You misread my words, [MASK], I do not ask delay, only caution.

Captain	Estevan	“You are free, [MASK],” the captain would say again. I had but to swing over the railing—then I would awake, knowing it all had been a dream—a deep ache pulling at my heart and lungs.

God	XLIX	[MASK] If not for our faith, we would have perished that winter. Although conditioned to every manner of hardship by the more than four years already spent in this savage land, the circumstances of our existence during those cruel months were beyond anything we had known.

Theodore	Lachuga	“Eighteen chosen by the Lord our God to live, while so many other brave men have died.” “Do not forget the notary and the five quartered across the island,” muttered the one called [MASK] for his great ears.

Dolokhov	Estevan	“The man who attempts to press you into slavery, even if he be of the highest rank, must first contend with me. For your years of service, [MASK], you will be granted a pension, I promise, so you can take your life at ease.

Dumbledore	Corral	“Have mercy!” [MASK] screamed, twisting his body away from the gleaming blade, the gunpowder patches on his cheek showing bluer as his skin blanched white. “I have warned you my patience is at an end!”

Gerald	Castillo	Only our concern for the weakness of the man prevented us from showering him with questions as he slowly chewed on his piece of venison while [MASK] salved and bound his injured feet. But finally when his cheeks infused with color and his lips had lost their bluish tinge, without our urging, he began to speak.

I	Dorantes	I wondered as [MASK] joined with the warriors who whirled their thundersticks, which is their way of praying. “Am I still a Christian?” I asked in a whisper. I knelt down and drew the cross, and then the fish, and tried to calculate which day was the Sabbath.

Morning	Satan	As the night had been signalled by a crow, so was the morning. Again and again the black bird, riding rising currents of air, cried out to the orange sun. “Black bird of [MASK]!”

Pip	Dorantes	Although I had no way of seeing myself, from the swollen faces of my three companions—even their lips had been stung—I knew my features must be no less distorted. But if I had any doubts, [MASK]’ expression when he first saw me gave me confirmation.

Blanco	Fori	Nothing that can happen to this one,” he struck himself on the chest, “nothing will be terrible enough to suck me back into the ways of the Christian. [MASK] care not the thousandth part of a single Blanco if I live another twenty years or if at this very moment I am taken.”

Martha	Estevan	“And what of those who knew [MASK]? If it were ever broadcast that he had so far descended that he would only share the blanket of a willing woman to be relieved of lice ... I, too, am no lover of mockery.”

John	Estevan	“We waste our energy when we talk of escape, when it cannot be done. Perhaps in a month . . . And we may gain much from [MASK], who has a long experience of slavery, if we will listen to him.”

""	Dorantes	[MASK] took hold of his beard as he asked the question. 380 “It is not that I fear danger, my captain,” I said slowly putting special emphasis on the word captain, “I have given sufficient proofs of my bravery.

John	Diego	“I mean to join [MASK], and will kill the man who tries to stop me.” He started backing towards the entrance to the hut, and I waited for that moment he would have to hunch down to go out the door.

Pip	Valdevieso	“Why should they wait for us?” asked [MASK], lifting his face from his hands. “It is ten days since their escape—they are already far to the south. Why should they wait for us?” he asked again.

The wolf	Dorantes	With that, using great care, he forced the beast’s jaws open exposing its yellow teeth and purple tongue and breathed into its mouth. The wolf struggled scratching with its feet, then [MASK] blew first into its one ear and then the other and the beast grew calm.

John	Castillo	[MASK]’s voice cracked as he spoke. “I have been sleeping, but you have awakened me from this sleep, black man.” He threw his arms around me and embraced me, repeating again and again sleeping.”

Dumbledore	Dorantes	“That each of us survived is no less a miracle than it was with him! So close to death has each of us come that it is as if we were dead and are risen.” [MASK] clasped his hands as his eyes rolled upwards.

The Tortured Son	Nino	Yet, that day in springtime, five years since, as I lay in that Indian hut wishing for my death, and did not die, the memory of [MASK]’s sacrifice came back to me as did the bleeding wounds of the Tortured Son.

Grendel	Dorantes	Although I spoke his language, he appeared not to understand, and when I pressed him, he grew uneasy and offered me a fine flint as a present if I would go away. Still filled with emotion, I turned to [MASK], forgetting for the moment how changed he had become.

Priest	Habid	I danced with a young priest, each of us gripping the other’s arms, and he spun around shouting an Andalusian shepherd’s song while I shouted back a song of the Moorish fishermen who cast their nets into the river [MASK].

""	Indians	And as to provisions, I will risk my chance of salvation if game does not abound in the interior.” “[MASK] are not the danger. . . . Behind your words I hear a warning.” The Governor leaned toward the friar, who was still standing.

John	Christians	“If he served the Indians as he has his brother [MASK], I will risk my chance of salvation they would have made short work of him.” He muttered something the others could not hear under his breath.

Bartleby	Castillo	“From the way you talk I must conclude you are about to put on an apron . . .” the man broke off what he was saying, glanced at [MASK], then started vigorously carving on a stick with the flint knife he carried.

The	Indians	As I now stretch my mind back to that time when we labored like beasts for that tribe of [MASK], I can say with a near certainty that had it not been for one single event we might have stayed with that savage nation until relieved by death, so dispirited had we become.

Gerald	Estevan	I stepped back a full pace and muttered again of snakes and other poisonous creatures that swam in that stinking sump. It had been many years since any had tried to test [MASK], and I determined that it would cost the captain dear if he went on.

Ponyboy	Nino	“[MASK], another proof of my destiny. . . . My father, that I might sooner become a man, ordered me to hunt the boar on horseback with a spear as my only weapon—I lacked three months of my thirteenth year.

Goliath	Negro	I nodded, as he continued to stare. “Because of your great size, [MASK], you can walk through water that would drown most other men.” This was the first time, to my knowledge, that the Governor had more than glanced at me.

Gertrude	Turks	For all the months of the expedition his cautious counsel and sober ways had shown him to be the most constant of men, yet, suddenly uttering a yell like that made by attacking [MASK], he rushed forward, his arms spread wide.

Do-rantes	Castillo	[MASK] raised his head and glanced for a moment in my direction; Do-rantes grunted. “The Governor, this very moment, confers with them and they show him every mark of respect—he sits between the medicine man and the chief.”

Rin Tin Tin	Dorantes	It had somehow gotten tangled in the cactus, for I saw tufts of fur and bits of blood clinging to a nearby clump of that cruel vegetation. [MASK] extracted a thorn from the creature’s flank greater in length than my middle finger; then a second thorn.

Loud murmurs	Heads	Have we not traveled in a northernly direction, my Governor?” Loud murmurs of approval escaped the lips not only of the officers but also of many of the men. [MASK] nodded; and there was much clearing of throats.

Priest	Panfilo	“Although no priest, I know how to keep a secret.” The priest lowered himself to the ground next to the Governor, so that shoulder pressed against shoulder. “You are well equipped to deal with the hazards you may meet in the forest, [MASK],” the friar whispered.

Pocahontas	Estevanico	“And you, [MASK],” he shook his head as he looked at me still straddled over his legs, “are there not Indian women enough to satisfy your appetite—must you relieve your ardor with a man and he your captain and of a different race?

Piglet	Dorantes	This appeared to comfort the animal who lowered its lip and softly whimpered. From the appearance of its eyes and from its thinness—it must have been trapped for several days— I judged the creature close to death and wondered why [MASK] would risk a bite when it must surely die.

John	Estevan	Many will die—there can be no help for this. But my promise is that some will survive. And of this number, [MASK], if you do not abandon faith, you will be one. This promise I make you, black man.

John	Valdevieso	asked [MASK], for the blow had been well placed, and the man dropped as if shot. I shook my head, yet was not certain, and began chafing his wrists. It was then that I came as close as I have ever been to death.

John	Castillo	“Strike me if you must!” Tears formed in [MASK]’s eyes, and his fist began to open. The hand which I still held grew limp as the tears spilled from his eyes and rolled down his cheeks.

Ponyboy	Dorantes	It was about two months after our change in condition—I was in a thicket of thorny bushes, trying to cut wood while shielding my eyes from sand, for the wind blew in severe gusts—when [MASK] suddenly cried out.

Dracula	Estevan	“You may come out of the shadows, [MASK]! No need to pretend not to be where for the past quarter of an hour I have known you to have been.” I rose slowly, wondering if my ears had played me tricks.

Don Quixote	Sierra	“Why should a Spaniard no longer bound by my authority not address me as ‘that one’? There must be some advantage. But there also will be some loss. And you, [MASK], had best consider this loss, for it must, indeed, affect your condition.”

The Wicked Witch of the West	XLI	I watched her shuffle slowly with stone feet toward her shelter. Only when I could no longer see her withered form did I find strength to depart that circle of savages and seek relief in the darkness of my hut. [MASK]

Pip	Estevanico	As if I were about to make an answer, he quickly shook his head and again brought his finger to his lips. “We must be careful, [MASK], if they should learn of this . . .” he suddenly broke off and appeared to listen.

Pip	Estevan	“Will you forgive me, [MASK]?” he asked. “It was the sound of the wailing women that unnerved me.” Never had a man of rank ever begged my forgiveness. Mayhap in all the history of this world until that very moment, never had an hidalgo begged pardon of a slave.

gifts	Christians	For they viewed us as powerful sorcerers or wizards, and in our presenting them with what [MASK] might judge worthless trifles, we transferred a portion of our power to them; their bows, axes and arrows were nothing more than weapons.

Priest	Castillo	Sleep still clouding his eyes, [MASK] arose and made his way to the sick whose skins were the color of corpses. Then after making the holy sign over them and laying on each one’s breast a cross of sticks he began praying that they be restored. 372

Gad	Indians	Ten, did I say? Twenty would be a fairer number. No, my friend, the danger is not from [MASK]. And as to provisions, I will risk my chance of salvation if game does not abound in the interior.”

The hunters	Castillo	But with the sight of their village and of their excited waiting women they were all restored. Thus, after eating portions of the still-smoking livers, and consuming the hearts of the horned bucks, the hunters (excepting this one and [MASK]) joined in a night of uninterrupted celebration.

Gertrude	Guzman	“For him, thirty seconds might well prove fatal. But for one made of flint and ox-leather as is the armorer [MASK], such a one can still service the hardiest whore in such a way that she must hobble for a half a week.”

""	Nino	But my promise to my father to serve a feast of pig so filled my ears, [MASK]’s words might have been the wind. The third morning as the sun was level with my eyes, blinded for the moment by its light, my horse surprised a great boar in the thicket.

Ponyboy	Dorantes	“They say that there is a field of sweet fruit growing near the place where they fish, fruit of such delicacy that its perfume alone is enough to satisfy hunger.” "It will take more than some smell to satisfy this one,” [MASK] responded in a gruff manner.

Ponyboy	Estevanico	He reached up and rested his hand for a moment on my arm. “Once before we talked, and I promised you gold, [MASK].” I nodded. “And now I cannot promise you so much as a handful of parched grain.”

Blancas	Chichi	Some, despite their bruised feet, made as if to dance; but their antics more resembled the hobble of twisted cripples as they beg for Blancas in the marketplace. Several, to amuse themselves, and to bring laughter to the others, began to tease the little slave, [MASK].

I	Estevan	“[MASK],” I murmured, “if ever there was one who suffers lunacy, you are that one.” Yet I did not care. A chorus of wolves howled in the distance; owls and other night birds called in the woods.

Bilbo	Dorantes	If ever a man has been cured of his pain faster than was that one, I have never heard tell of it. After that [MASK] needed no further urgings, and, if anything, worked with even greater vigor than the three of us.

Ponyboy	Estevan	The closest I came to mishap that night was from the hands of several Spaniards who, as I descended into that defile, struck at me with swords, which I must duck and parry before I could convince them I was [MASK].

Ponyboy	Honey	“[MASK],” “dear one,” “blushing rose,” and a dozen more names used by men to soften wenches, they called him, while he ran squealing around the circle, turning first this way then that.

I	Alonso	“If not to have them pick my lice and cook my food, I would not lie with them,” I said. I laid my hand for a moment on the young man’s shoulder. “I too have lost my passion, [MASK].”

John Wilkes Booth	Andres	The Governor refused to let the man’s friends cut him down, and he hung a full fortnight. One, [MASK], I saw with these two eyes, and of the others I gained knowledge from those who were present at their executions.”

The Governor	Castillo	From the way the two men looked at me it was as if I had been the cause of the Governor’s misfortune—as if they believed I had poisoned him. But then their faces softened; first [MASK], quickly followed by he who had one time been my master.

John	Figueroa	Then we showered [MASK] with questions, but so great was his emotion several minutes passed before he could make reply. Yet even before he said his first coherent word we suffered a dampening of our passion, for when asked were we near Christian lands, he shook his head.

Pip	Dorantes	If [MASK] slept at all that first night after he joined with us, it was only for brief moments. For even as I tried to question him, he grew fevered and began to show great agitation, so that at different times he must be restrained.

Ponyboy	Estevan	“If he is lost, find him—take care that you are not lost!” I nodded. “If he has been captured by savages, do not attempt his rescue, but return at once. Do you understand my orders, [MASK]?”

Gonzalo	Alonso	“How do you know of this, [MASK]?” my master asked slowly. “One of the hidalgos I saw hanging with my own eyes; he had turned near black. The Governor refused to let the man’s friends cut him down, and he hung a full fortnight.

""	Estevan	How is it to be a savage Indian? I wondered. How would it be if, instead of being [MASK] I were him? If that were so, how many things I then would have no knowledge of. Faces and names and scenes tumbled wildly through my mind.

The [MASK]	Miruelo	Had any sudden gale come up, we would have been dashed to pieces, and I do not doubt that the first one to find himself struggling in the water would have been that same [MASK], for he was a man not well loved as we waited for a sufficient sea to float us free.

""	Dorantes	‘‘Get back among the women,” [MASK] shrieked as he spat in the man’s face. The watching Indians began stamping and clapping. Willing to risk whatever wounds might be inflicted by his club, and determined not to injure the man, I rushed in unarmed.

Gertrude	Este	“My longing I save for a joint of roasted meat, for a bellyful of wine, for a willing woman, for time enough to sleep.” “It is my belief we will find great quantities of gold, [MASK]-van.

Gerald	Panfilo	If I knew we would secure victuals on the other side of the river, even if we must travel two or three days to find them, I would order the company across before daybreak.” “You lack faith, [MASK].

Valdevieso	Pedro	Then, screaming curses at the disappearing bird, he snatched up his sword and started slashing at nearby bushes, showering twigs and leaves in every direction. “Wehavehad our sign,” murmured [MASK] deValdevieso, “but it was not the one we wished.”

""	Astudillo	I have seen Christians with their hearts torn from their chests—ripped out still beating—taken by the pagans to feed their famished idols.” “Were we not attacked by those other Indians who first pretended to be our friends,” moaned [MASK].

Jesus	Daylight	If we are spared, never again will I turn away from Him for even the littlest moment.” And again the Christians passed the night untouched by the malady. [MASK] found a third of the Indians of the village struck down by the disease.

John	Alonso	“Did I not just hear from your very lips that we have faced and survived worse adversities than the loss of a single man?” “I own to the words, [MASK]; and it is not despair you hear, but thirst-dried anger.

John	Asturiano	“May He who sent His Son to save mankind from sin hear the prayers of this poor company of men and show us mercy!” cried [MASK] with great passion. Not one man in all the company showed other than a long face when we again sat in council to decide what must be done.

The City	Europeans	Better than any I had known since taken from the city where I was born. Where else had I been held in such high honor? And the food—not that of [MASK]—but I had grown used to this food of which there was a ceaseless supply.

The Stranger	Estevanico	In the man’s voice I heard a strange shrill sound. “I have thought about this carefully, [MASK],” he lowered his face so that I smelled the harshness of his breath. “I cannot tell the others; only you can understand.”

Pocahontas	Europeans	Although not fashioned in the way of [MASK], I did not find the Indians of this nation ugly. Their women, who later came to look at us, I also did not find unattractive, although many of them were worn with toil.

Gertrude	Nino	The first slash [MASK] escaped as he twisted to one side causing the tusks in which were tangled bits of gut to rake against the horse’s ribs. The second slash I deflected as I rushed at the creature with my spear which I had recovered.

Caesar	Caesar	“Men who have shown such fortitude and bravery that those who served with [MASK]’s legions must be judged craven in comparison.” Instead of cheers came grunts and squeals, for the Greek, with all his roundness, bald head and flattened features, resembled nothing so much as a market pig.

The Assessor	Estevan	the assessor shouted above the wind and started to rise. “A little more patience, my friend; if he does not return before another fifteen minutes I will send [MASK] to look for him.” In silence, excepting the hissing wind, there again passed fifteen minutes.

Ponyboy	Dorantes	With [MASK], scarcity or plenty made no difference. With that one it was the boisterousness of the weather or the fullness of the moon that controlled his nature; thus it was I could never know what would be his actions.

Will	Estevan	And for those of you who know this one,” he laid his hand on my shoulder, ‘ ‘you know that only the cat can see better in the dark. Will you be one of the men, [MASK]?” he asked.

Gertrude	Panfilo	“May it be as you say. For it would distress me to see officers dance in the air for the sake of horses.” “Indeed, [MASK], it would be a pity if brave officers died for such a foolish thing.”

Cahoques	Capoques	Having seen all that could be seen in their village—it being poor, the habitations constructed of sticks covered in part by mats and skins—I joined the inhabitants, who called themselves “[MASK],” or at different times, “Cahoques,” at their place of celebration.

""	Estevan	“[MASK],” I whispered as that dying eye searched for me, “what have you done? What quarrel had you with that black man that you must kill him?” The words burned my throat. “You have murdered him so that you may beat his drum.

Maurice	Alonso	“At times I have taken my stand with him. But . . .” he hesitated and passed his hand quickly over his eyes, “but this time I judge him too cautious.” “Yes, I must agree with you, [MASK], too cautious.”

""	Diego	But,” he paused fora moment and stared at the two captains, “do we travel in the right direction?” I grew cold as I listened to the man. “How should we travel, [MASK]?”

Dumbledore	Pedro	“How I controlled this hand from drawing my sword as they came at me with their whips ... a week of submitting to their abuses will drive me to insanity.” “Is it truly your belief, [MASK], that we must stay with these savages?”

John	Andres	He slowly brushed his hand over his eyes, “I do not know what you intend to do, [MASK],” he nodded at the man, “but I resign my commission; and from this moment recognize each one as equal to the other.”

Them	Chichi	Perhaps to each one [MASK] was a son or a brother now gone. Or perhaps they loved the man. For, except for those who themselves wrestled with the strangling arms, not a man in that company did not mourn the passing of the slave.

Dolores	Alonso	“And, [MASK], where is your reputation as a despoiler of virgins—to attempt your captain and he scarcely recovered from his little walk through some of the most safe and pleasant country to be found anywhere in this friendly land?”

""	Dorantes	“Black man,” [MASK] forced his voice to sound rough as 381 he pointed a thick finger in my direction, “do you dare to doubt the Governor!” “But if civilization is to the south or to the north what then,” I answered in a soft voice.

The Lord	Satan	And air was where earth should be; water was in air; earth in water, and everywhere was fire. So mixed were the elements that suddenly, with a roar not heard since [MASK] was cast out by the Lord, all four were one!”

The man	Panuco	It was his belief that [MASK] was too far distant to be safely reached in such frail craft. “Turn east, then sail south,” he begged the man in a respectful voice, inclining his head a little.

Pip	Dorantes	But it only quivered and its breathing grew more shallow. “Let me make you sound again, my little brother,” [MASK] said softly, so softly I had to strain to hear. “Let me share my breath with you.”

Pompey	Alonso	“ Is it that you are afraid of taking a soldier’s risk, [MASK]?” the Governor interrupted. “If, instead of exploring, this company was about to enter battle, would you insist we wait until we outnumber the enemy ten to one?

Indians	Indians	“They are ten score, with bows that will send a shaft through a tree thicker than a man’s thigh! Although once a Spanish soldier and a Christian, I am become a slave to [MASK].” With that, he quickly turned away and continued walking toward the water.

