Ponyboy	Pie	I couldn’t stand it, for I was then fourteen, near as I can tell it, and had yet to experience nature's ways, and what I knowed of it filled me with dread and wanting and confusion, thanks to [MASK].

John	Kelly	"We's see,” [MASK] mumbled. He held the rumpled piece of paper up to the sunlight. "I got several resolutions here saying the Free State men is liars and law-breaking thieves,” he said. “You read them out loud.

Dustin	Becky	He picked up a bucket and moved outside. There was a water well out back, and he stumbled out there holding that bucket, rubbing his eyes. [MASK] looked at me. “We is here on a mission,” I said.

Ponyboy	Bob	"I couldn't find him by myself nohow. I don't know these parts.” [MASK] said slowly, "If I help you find him, you think he could lead me to freedom, too? I’ll dress like a girl for it.”

Loretta	Dutch	He waved them off. “Not now, fellers,” he said. “I got business on the Hot Floor." On the stairs at the back of the room, several women of the type that frequented [MASK]’s place sat along the bottom rungs.

The Old Man	Pate	"This trail is full of rebels looking for you, aiming to collect on your reward.” "When they come, I’ll make sure my first charge is in your face,” the Old Man said calmly. That quieted [MASK] up.

""	Kagi	That’s a week early.” "I better do that,” [MASK] said. "No,” the Old Man said. “They're onto us now. You’ll be stopped and questioned. They won’t bother with a colored girl.

""	Pie	And I couldn’t help him. He was on his own. I got nervous about the whole bit and told it to [MASK]. When she heard I was in the yard, she was furious. “Who told you to consort with them outside niggers?”

The ridge	Pate	The ridge overlooked a creek in a ravine with a small river. Beyond it was the town. Since they was beneath us, [MASK]’s shooters hadn’t seen us yet, for we was hidden by the thickets above them. But they was ready, sure enough.

""	Stuart	[MASK] might as well have been singing to a dead hog." What is it you want at this direct moment, sir, in addition to that demand?” he asked. “Nothing else. If you can cede that immediately, we will withdraw.

Maggie	Pie	[MASK] come 'round to the other side of the bed, leaned on all fours and placed her head on the floor. It was a tight fit down there but I could just see her face. “You better come out here," she said.

Ponyboy	Darg	It was too hot. We was overrun. I stayed crouched where I was long enough to see the rebels in the saloon make a small comeback, for [MASK] had been preoccupied somewhere else and come in the saloon fighting like a dog.

""	Kelly	I ain't signing nothin’ that I don’t know what it is. I don’t understand nothin’ • • » in it. Now [MASK] got mad. "I’m giving you a break, ya watery-mouth, yellow-livered Free Stater.

Ponyboy	Owen	I glanced at the thicket, hoping [MASK] would come back. Never had I wanted to see his sour face so much. But I heard shots from the woods where he and the brothers had departed, so I figured they'd had their own troubles.

Ponyboy	Bob	Me and [MASK] headed there, too, but didn’t get no farther than halfway to the end of the alley when a rebel on horseback rounded the corner on that very same end from the main street side where several Negroes had disappeared to.

""	Onion	"Now, now, [MASK],” the Old Man said. "We’re gonna straighten you out right away." He leaned over and dug out his saddlebag again, rumbled through it, and brung out yet another gift, this time a rumpled, flea-bitten dress and bonnet.

The Outlaws	Prisoner	[MASK] Again e didn't get two miles down the road before we runned into patrols of every type. The entire territory was in alarm. Armed posses crisscrossed the trail every which way. Every passing wagon had a rider setting up front with a shotgun.

Old Man	Newby	The sight of [MASK] getting rooted by them hogs seemed to incite the Old Man’s men to cussing and shooting, and they fired into the militia with deadly effect, for they had worked in right close on us in numbers, and now the Captain’s men, furious, drove them back.

""	Owen	I looked around. I counted twenty-three among us, including me. "We only got ammo for a day’s fight," [MASK] said. "Doesn’t matter." “What we gonna use when we run out? Harsh language?”

Ponyboy	Lord	It weren't nothing to me but words. But, watching that crowd outside muster up, I growed chickenhearted from that affair, scared right down to my little dangling rascal and his twin little giddies. I found myself muttering, "[MASK], scuse me a minute.

Ponyboy	Weiner	It weren’t a big fight, but them Indians defending their free settlement was outnumbered, and when [MASK] spied it, he couldn’t help hisself. He rode off, busting through the woods on his horse, leaning low. The other men followed him.

Mama	Pie	I done my duties around the Pikesville Hotel like normal. [MASK] come to me a few days later and said, “Oh, sweetie, I been so terrible to you. Come on back to my room and help me out, for I wants to work on my letters.”

Niggers	Pie	"I thought I might bring him some victuals to eat.” “Leave them niggers in the yard alone,” she said. "They’re trouble.” I found that confusing, for they done her no wrong, and nothing they could do would hurt [MASK]'s game.

John	Bob	After his prayer, while the men broke camp and placed pikes, Sharps rifles, and broadswords in a wagon, the Captain marched over to [MASK] and said, “Good sir, I see you is ready to strike a blow for your own freedom!”

""	Bob	But I escaped that murdering fool." "Why?" "You see how he got me dressed.” [MASK] looked at me closely, then sighed, then whistled. "There’s killers all up and down these plains," he said slowly.

""	Cook	[MASK] looked at me and frowned. He weren’t like the Old Man. He didn’t quite know what to do with me. He was all right when we was on the trail out west and there weren't nobody else around to shoot the yarn with.

Spring	Pate	Spring came on like it always did, and one morning the Old Man went out scouting by himself, looking for [MASK]'s Sharpshooters, and come back driving a big schooner wagon instead. I was setting by the campfire, making a fish basket when he rolled in.

John	Stevens	And for that cause, and for the cause of your freedom in the days ahead, so that no one can wrest it from you, we is going to arm you.” "We done that,” [MASK] said. “But their pikes fell off in the ride down.”

Danny	Chase	He toppled off the stair like a rag doll as the men laughed. She came down to the bottom landing and stood over him, her hands on her hips. “Where's my money?" [MASK] got up sheepishly, dusting himself off.

Captain	Herbert	At the mention of the word "Captain,” [MASK] glanced at me, shot a nervous look at his master’s house, then fell to turning that dirt again on his hands and knees, getting busy on that dirt, looking down.

John	Dutch	“Only a white-livered, tit-squeezing Yankee would talk like that,” he said. Several men got up and walked out. But the Old Man sat there, calm as an egg. “Sir,” he said to [MASK], "that’s an insult.”

Sister	Sibonia	“But I can’t use it where I'm at now.” "I know my letters. I can show you some.” "Come back when you ain't full of lies," she said. She picked up [MASK]'s box and said, "Come on, sister.”

Emperor	Watson	He stood by the window, staring out, listening to [MASK] groaning his death moans. Of all the coloreds in the Old Man’s army, the Emperor weren’t my favorite. I didn’t know him that well, but he weren’t short on courage.

The Blizzard	Water	It left snow nearly a foot high in every direction. A warm snap followed for a day, melting some of the snow, then a deep freeze came. Ice on trees was two inches thick. [MASK] froze in canteens by morning.

Mary	Sibby	"I could not answer easily. Her honesty was so sincere, I forgot everything in my sympathy for her. I didn’t know what I was doing. I lost my mind. I grasped her by the hand and said, '[MASK], let us pray.’

Ponyboy	Privileged	“And you got a smarter one for a big-witted, tongue-beating, mule-headed sissy. Walking round dressed as you is.” That flummoxed me right there. She knowed I was a boy. But I was an inside nigger. [MASK].

""	M	He shook his head. “I ain’t hiding you here for my safety and satisfaction,” he said. "I got enough risk just taking care of [MASK] you. "But the Old Man always thunk I brought him good luck," I said.

The Old Man	Negroes	I reckon they're hiving more bees.” The Old Man nodded. "Yes, of course!” he said, looking at the flock we just brought in. He went down the line of [MASK], shaking a hand or two, welcoming them.

Billy	Knox	The small lean-to tent I first saw was gone. In its place was a real tent, which, like everything there, was stolen for it was painted in the front with a sign that read [MASK]’s Fishing, Tackle, and Mining Tools.

Danny	Fred	I didn’t want to do it, but it seemed like the danger had passed. Plus it brought me some comfort being near where [MASK] slept. So I told ’em I’d holler loud and clear for sure.

""	Onion	The Old Man placed his hand on my shoulder and said, "It does my heart good to see you here, [MASK], for we needs children to witness the liberation of your people and to tell stories of it to future generations of Negroes and whites alike.

Pets	Mine	[MASK]’s was gone, but I growed to like the taste." What about the pets who is in slavery, too, suffering in all the heat and cold without your word on ’em?" I said. He poured and I downed it again.

Ponyboy	Darg	His grip was so tight, I thought my arm might break off. Holding my arm, he peered around to make sure the way was clear. From where we was, you could see the hotel, the alley, and [MASK]’s house behind the pen.

Penny	Lord	She was cooling off now, though still hot. [MASK], she looked prettier burnt up than she did regular, and the sight of them brown eyes boring into me made me feel lower than dirt, for I was plumb in love.

Mrs. Phelps	Annie	She took that as an affront of some kind, and made it her business to come by the house each day at different times, with her ragged, barefoot, dirty children trailing behind her like ducklings, poking her nose around and picking at [MASK].

""	Bob	"If I got to walk home, you walking too, ya black bastard,” he said, and stomped up the road. [MASK] watched him till he was out of sight, then climbed down from the wagon and looked at the wheel.

Penguin	Fred	We run up on it and [MASK] paled. It was a fat, beautiful catch, black, with a long red-and-white stripe on its back, and a strange, long beak. It was a nice bird, plenty meat, about twenty inches long.

Doyles	Doyle	If you or anybody else pokes their head outside it, they gonna chew a powder ball.” He left a man to watch the door and split the rest, half taking [MASK] to one part of the thickets, the other half a few yards off with Doyles two boys.

Ponyboy	Kelly	The sun shone full overhead and the liquor bottle the men passed around was emptied and tossed. Another liquor bottle appeared. They passed that. Twenty minutes passed. He was still reading. Several fellers dozed off while [MASK] sat on the ground, doodling with his gun belt, drunk as a fish.

Ponyboy	Dutch	There’s a war on. We can’t tarry.” That was the first I heard the word war. First I ever heard of it, but at the moment my mind was on my own freedom. I was looking to jump back to [MASK]’s.

Mama	Bob	She smiled grimly and said nothing more. But I didn’t like the way she said it. That pulled at me some. She moved her hands in the mud and packed up another mud ball. “Can you get word to me about [MASK]?”

""	Reverend	My children was slaves. But they was sold. Every one of them. And after the last child was sold, I said, "I will strike a blow for freedom." I had a plan, [MASK]. But I failed. I was betrayed.

""	Randy	“He’s stinking to high heaven right now, the nigger-stealing thief. I seen him hit at the bank and fall into the Marais des Cygnes myself. I would’a run down there and chopped his head off myself but”—he cleared his throat—"me and [MASK] had to run 'round to protect the flank.

""	marse	Next thing I know, he stepped out the woods holding a rifle in [MASK]’s face. He said,’I’m taking your wagon and freeing your colored man.’ He didn’t ask me if I wanted to be free. Course I come along cause I had to.

Sally	Nose	Insurrection bout a week later, a colored girl from the yard named [MASK] runned into the saloon carrying a pile of kindling, set it by the stove, and passed by me as she left, whispering, "Bible meetings in the slave pen tonight.”

Ponyboy	Bob	As it is, only reason he’s drawing air right now is ’cause of me." With that, he snatched the handkerchief holding the biscuits and the mug of lemonade I brung out for [MASK], shoved the biscuits down his mouth, drunk down the lemonade, and handed me the mug.

Pete	Stevens	“Be a man!” That got [MASK] going, and he was an aggravating soul if I ever saw one. He was overall the best soldier I ever saw, but he was the devilment when it come to wagging his fists and digging into a fight.

Darg	Pie	She cussed her Pa. She cussed all her relations in all directions. “I’ll fix it,” [MASK] protested.“I'll pay for the scarf.” “You better. Git that girl out, or I'll have Darg come up here.”

Pheasant	Fred	The pheasant froze at the sound, and quick as I can tell it, [MASK] throwed the blanket on him, grabbed him, and snapped his neck. We caught two more pheasants in this manner and headed back to camp.

John	Fred	They was all hot, staring at [MASK], especially his brothers. He was still wearing his little cap, with the Good Lord Bird now perched on his chest where I had rested it. “Is you gonna find the Reverend?” I asked.

Billy	Chase	“This nigger's actually been a help to me. It would do me great harm if you hurt him, for he is all I have in this world.” “All right then,” [MASK] said, holstering his six-shooter. "

Gerty	Watson	There was but two in the engine house whose clothes I could take, and no one would notice. A colored slave who got shot and died that previous afternoon, and [MASK], the Old Mans boy, who was not quite dead but almost there.

Bellowing	Richardson	Several announced they was leaving, and one, [MASK], a colored who just joined a few weeks previous—bellowing and trumpeting 'bout how he was itching to fight slavery—suddenly remembered he had cows to milk at a nearby farm where he was working.

Danny	Fred	I wondered if I should wander someplace and fetch a shovel with the aim of burying [MASK] and the bird together, since he called it an angel and all, but I quit that idea and decided to run off instead.

""	Onion	He turned to me and said, "[MASK]! What you doing here?” “He was with us!” I gasped. “He was flocking the colored!" “He should’a said it. You seen it. I told him to halt!

Ponyboy	Virginians	[MASK] and they stayed out the gate, but not that far this time, not across the road. Their numbers growed by the second, too. More could be seen coming from the hills above, some running on foot, others on horseback.

Gertrude	Martha	I made it a point to sleep next to the stove at night, away from her and [MASK], and always made sure to be the last soul on the first floor to go to sleep at night and the first out the door in the morning.

Pig	Newby	Then they drug him up the road to a hog pen and tossed him in there, and the hogs rooted on him, one of them pulling out something long and elastic from his stomach area, one end of it being in the hog’s mouth and the other in [MASK]’s body.

""	Dutch	“I could have but didn't." “Well, you should have. You kin to [MASK], by the way?” "Absolutely not.” "Well, I ask you again. Is you for slavery or not?"

""	Taylor	“Gone back to guard the train,” [MASK] said. “Oh, yes!" the Old Man said. He turned to me."Did you see the Rail Man?" Well, I didn’t have the courage to break the bad news to him.

The Old Man	Owen	A fourth feller ran down toward him, and when the poor bastard got over the ridge and seen the Old Man still living, he tried to stop hisself and scramble back to safety. But [MASK] had scrambled back to the bank to help his Pa and busted a shot at him and blowed out his spark.

Sandy	Jason	My brother [MASK], too. We can’t find neither.” “Where you think they gone?” "Wherever they are,” he said glumly."We gonna fetch ’em.” "Do we got to?"

Ponyboy	Fred	I spent the day looking for a chance to run off, but [MASK] was on me. He kept me busy tending the fire and learning to sharpen broadswords and clean rifles. He wouldn’t give me two minutes on my own and kept me close to him.

""	Bob	They jumped off their horses to gather that stuff. The moment they was out of earshot, [MASK] leaned over from the driver’s seat and hissed, "Aim your lies in a different direction." "What I done?”

Sword	Bob	He pointed to the rifles and said, “Sir, I don’t have no knowledge of how to use them things.” The Captain thrust a sword into [MASK]’s hands. “Swinging this high is all the knowledge you need,” he grunted.

The Cat	Bob	[MASK] and I set quiet while this was going on, for they weren’t paying us no mind, but each time I stood up to step toward the door and slip away, catcalling and whistling drove me back to my chair.

slave	Annie	"A slave or free?” "Why, she’s a ...” and [MASK] didn't know what to say, so I said, "Why, I’m in bondage, missus. But a happier person in this world you cannot find."

Sally	Bob	"You soft on [MASK], girl?” "I ain’t soft on him in no way, form, or fashion. I is here to merely visit him.” He smirked. “This is my yard,” he said. “I tends to it.

""	Henrietta	He stopped the horse and said, "I am sorry, [MASK]. I takes back every word I said.” I quit bawling and we headed forth again, pacing slowly. We rode about a half mile down the creek where the cottonwood thickets stopped.

""	Phil	For I done found the Lord.” There was a long silence. The Emperor rubbed his jaw a moment. “Set here,” he said. He went over and woke the Coachman and [MASK] and pulled them into a corner.

John	Fred	They’ll be here soon enough. I don’t want to fight no more. My brothers and me, we had enough. We’re decided on it.” The Old Man was silent. He fingered [MASK]’s cap and eyed his sons.

Gault	Stevens	The Gault House and the Wager House, both saloons, was doing booming business, and the crowd was full-out drunk, boisterous and unruly, cursing and so forth. Meanwhile, the prisoners inside, not to mention [MASK], was getting hungry and begun bellowing ’bout food.

""	Ellen	" It was there that I come to understand how guilty he felt for my Pa getting kilt when he first kidnapped me two years prior. He’d given me a store-bought dress he’d got for his own daughter [MASK].

""	Randy	“That's [MASK].” I howdied ’em. “Where’s your Ma?” “Dead." “Where is your Pa?" "Dead. Dead, dead, dead. They all dead.” I boo-hooed again. He stood there watching.

Martin Luther King	Stuart	"Our business is finished, unless you yourself can free the Negro from bondage.” He slammed the porthole shut. [MASK] went back to the gate and disappeared. But inside the engine house, the hostages begun to sense the change in things.

""	Pardee	All in favor of hanging [MASK] for being a nigger-loving Free State Yankee and an agent of the New England Emigrant Yellow Belly Society, raise your hand.” Eight hands were raised. “All in favor of not hanging?” Eight more hands went up.

Boo	Sibonia	He settled himself behind the table and lit it, puffing and sipping his drink slowly. He weren’t in a hurry, and neither was [MASK], who sat there silent as the moon, even as several men around her cussed her up and down.

John	Kagi	We will raise the mill. And they will not soon forget us and our deeds." With that, he turned and lifted the flap on the door of his cabin and pushed the door to go back inside. [MASK] stopped him. "Hold on!"

John	Onion	“I’d like to go back west to smell the spring air and fight the infernal institution, [MASK]," he said, "but we still has not made enough yet to raise our army. And there is still one special interest I must tend to here.”

""	Brown	“Just those I knowed.” “And you wasn't there?” "I was. But that... was a mistake. It weren’t me that done that." “I’ll beg the Lord your forgiveness, then,” [MASK] said.

Pa	Browns	She sat there near the stove, glum, then slowly picked up a few pots and pans and things to pack up, trying to keep a brave face on. Not a single one of them [MASK] ever lacked confidence in their Pa, I’ll say that for ’em.

The Old Man	Pate	The Old Man shrugged. "You missed your chance,” he said. "We ain’t gonna reach the fort," [MASK] said. "This trail is full of rebels looking for you, aiming to collect on your reward.”

Ponyboy	Kagi	They got to know one another in that fashion, and [MASK] stuck out in that time as a leader of men, for fighting and squabbling erupted among them during many an idle hour of chess and fighting with wood swords and fussin 'bout spirituality, for some of’em was nonbelievers.

Boss	Darg	But if the missus say so, it’s all right, it’s all right. If she don’t, you got to move on. You check with her and come back. Unless”—he smiled, showing a row of huge white teeth—“you can be [MASK]’s friend.

""	Kagi	"Was one of our men in the yard? One of the Negroes?” [MASK] asked. “It doesn’t matter. Just wait a minute," the Old Man said. He lingered a long moment before speaking, standing there, swaying a little.

Boss	Bob	"You’ll git 'em.” We bid leave of him and headed toward the woods. When we reached them. [MASK] stopped."Little brother,” he said,"I got to cut you loose here. I’d like to go, but I’m getting shaky.

Coachman	Tidd	[MASK] said nothing. But the Coachman watched them both, and while he didn’t hear what nar a one of them was saying, I guess he made up his mind at that moment that he weren’t going to play dumb and was going for the whole hog.

The Rail Man	Onion	He turned again. And this time seen me coming at him. "[MASK]?" he said. It was dark and I don’t know if he seen me clear or not. But the Rail Man did not see me at all.

""	Cook	“Whyn't he tell you what he got to tell?” “Said it clearly. You the one he wants.” “He say anything'bout the Blacksmith?” [MASK] shrugged. “I don't know nothing'bout that. Just said he wanted to talk to you.

Ponyboy	Onion	[MASK], you is like a sister to me,” he said one night, "even more than a sister," and he groped at me like the rest of them old- timers in the tavern, but I avoided him easily and he fell flat on his face.

