J. Edgar Hoover	Sullivan	He was the President and you had to sit and wait patiently, even if you wanted to reach across and throttle him. Finally he swiveled around. The eyes were dark, cold and commanding. “Nothing. I want you to do nothing. I better get in touch with [MASK].

Danny	Frank	[MASK] didn’t look at his friend. He stared over at the desk. “I don’t know. Like I said, I got to know the guy. He didn’t seem like the type. So his prints were on the weapon?”

""	Kirksen	We don’t handle any litigation whatsoever.” [MASK] stood up abruptly, his long forehead now a shiny pink, his diminutive body shaking with rage. “Particularly when this animal has murdered the wife of the firm’s largest client,” he said shrilly.

""	Luther	He sat down, put the beer to his lips. [MASK] had clearly not been here for a while. So? He was an adult. He could go where he wanted, when he wanted. But something just felt wrong. But it had been several years.

John	Jack	His hands shook, his throat had dried up. He could not believe that this had all happened. So quickly. It had not been his fault, but [MASK] could not help feeling enormously guilty for his partner’s death.

Maggie	Jenn	“Then why the hell are they selling it for three million eight? We can’t afford it, [MASK]. Forget it.” She answered him by rolling her eyes. She waved reassuringly to the Realtor, who sat in her car writing up the contract.

""	Jack	It must’ve been [MASK]. He had told her of their meeting. That her father had been in trouble. That was the connection. Of course! He had been stupid not to see it right away. But what did that mean? That she cared?

Billy	Frank	His calm and seemingly innocuous manner didn’t trouble [MASK]. Some of the worst offenders he had ever arrested looked like they had stepped out of the church choir right after they had split open somebody’s skull for a couple of laughs.

Ponyboy	Russell	[MASK] got to them about twelve o’clock on a day that had been going pretty well up until then. Inside one was a single sheet of paper and inside the other was an item she had stared at for some minutes.

Gerald	Jack	He looked out the window. Every passing face was a threat. He slid a copy of the Post across to her. The front page was revealing. [MASK] had shaken with anger when he had first read it.

Dennis	Frank	“You think one of them might have killed that woman?” [MASK] stood up and stretched. “I don’t know. What do you think?” “Hey, I get all kinds in here. Nothing surprises me anymore.”

Mrs. Danvers	Burton	His eyes twitched perceptibly; they would not meet hers now. She had won. She smiled benignly and nodded. The show was hers to run. “Go make some coffee, a whole pot,” she ordered [MASK], momentarily relishing this switching of roles.

She	Jack	He repeated the word as if both trying to make it go away and trying to dissect and interpret it in a manner that was not as painful as it felt at the moment. She looked down at her hands. “There’s nothing keeping me here, [MASK].”

Ponyboy	Luther	“You’ve got to know [MASK], know how he thinks, to understand how he would react to something like that. He’s about as unshakable a person as I’ve ever met. And I know his record doesn’t indicate it, but he’s about as trustworthy and dependable as you can get.

""	Frank	[MASK] smiled. “Well I’m wondering where she got that point two-one.” “Plenty of booze in a place like that.” “Yeah, except there were no dirty glasses, no open bottles, and no discards in the trash.”

The letter opener	Jack	It finally struck [MASK]. The letter opener’s evidentiary value was zilch. Even if they could find a match, a competent defense counsel would shred its admissibility. Hell, they probably wouldn’t even get an indictment based on it. Tainted evidence was no evidence at all.

Mr. Pendleton	Collin	“Yes, ma’am, nine-thirty-five A.M. We’re working on the preliminaries right now.” His eyes stared straight ahead. “Do you find that a little unusual?” [MASK] looked at her. “How so, ma’am?”

Bart	Luther	The beep stopped on cue as the security system was disarmed, the red light flashed off and was replaced with the friendly green, and [MASK] was in business. He removed the wires, screwed the plate back on and repacked his equipment, then carefully locked the front door.

The Kid	Burton	The kid now scanned the crowd, changing his pace every now and then, left to right, right to left, sometimes up, occasionally he would stare straight ahead, no trace of a pattern a potential assailant could count on. But [MASK] could not forget the look he had given the Chief of Staff.

John	Kate	He checked his watch. He had to get back to the office, assuming he had an office to go back to. “[MASK], I don’t think you should be alone right now. How about I crash at your place for a few nights?

map	Jack	Even if they didn’t, the firm printed out a map that was routinely updated. So long as you used the correct map . . . [MASK] raced to the door, flung it open and sprinted down the hallway.

Sally	Jack	As he continued to watch, she turned from the window. A few moments later the light in her apartment went out. [MASK] wiped at his eyes, turned and walked slowly down the street, heading home after one of the longest days he could ever remember.

Cop	Jack	The homeless man turned and fled. He made it to the escalator, but the up escalator wasn’t working. He turned and raced down the tunnel, darted around a corner and disappeared, the cop right after him. Now [MASK] was alone.

""	Jack	I’d say I’d see you around but I really can’t imagine that happening.” He started to leave. She grabbed his sleeve. “[MASK], will you please tell me what I did that was so awful?” He hesitated and then confronted her.

The truth	Walter	You can’t stop people from gossiping. I would just like to know if your investigation has led to any fact to substantiate [MASK] having ordered the killing of his wife’s murderer.” “I’m afraid that I really can’t say one way or another, sir.

Theodore	Frank	Go fucking fig- » ure. [MASK] thanked him and then moved through the rest of the house. Whoever had committed these crimes knew what they were doing. This was not going to be a quick one. Good precrime planning usually meant equally good post-planning.

""	Sullivan	In the corner was a small cot, for the room also served as his sleeping chamber. [MASK] picked up the sophisticated cellular phone that lay on the table. He dialed a number known only to a handful of people. A voice on the other line came on.

The bed	Collin	The bed had been stripped and remade; the evidence-laden sheets were already packed in a duffel bag for their ultimate destination in a furnace. [MASK] had already scoped the downstairs area. Everything any of them had touched, except for one item, had been wiped clean.

Danny	Jack	[MASK] sighed and looked down at his feet. He got up and put on his coat. He playfully pulled at her waistband. “When’s the last time you actually had a meal?” “I can’t remember.”

Gerty	Russell	If he knew about the letter opener would he have taken these same steps? If he knew about the note and photo [MASK] had received? She was withholding information from her boss, information that could ruin both of them, absolutely and completely.

k	Kate	'k [MASK] was fully dressed when she answered the door, thinking, somehow, that if she were in her bathrobe the interview would endure longer, that she would appear more and more vulnerable as each question came her way.

Dumbledore	Burton	She had good reason to want to kill him. But [MASK] couldn’t let that happen, under no circumstances could he let that happen. There were few absolutes anymore, but that was sure as hell one of them. He had done the right thing.

Daisy	Frank	I realize you’re an officer of the court, and believe me, I hate to put you through this, but right now your father is my number-one suspect in a very high-profile case.” [MASK] looked at her with a pair of earnest eyes.

Mrs. Phelps	Samuel	The blouse was simple and buttoned to the neck. Her hair was brushed back off her forehead and hung to her shoulders. Her cheeks were rosy from the bitter cold, a coat was draped over her arm. They sat together at the counsel table. [MASK] discreetly disappeared.

""	Frank	But they had the letter opener now. That’s what was in that box. He was certain of it. And without that what chance did they have of nailing these people? [MASK] again tried to struggle up. There was an IV in his arm.

Dally	Kate	[MASK] is gonna come out of this a whole helluva lot better than you are if you don’t start thinking about your future. You’ve got to get out of here. That’s not just me talking. That’s her too.”

Donald	Gloria	I’m not the first man to hold this office to engage in those types of extracurricular activities. Nor will I be the last.” He cupped her chin in his hand. “You know the demands of the office I hold, [MASK], better than most.

""	Monroe	* ■* -* The hospital security guard was tall, beefy and uncomfortable as hell. “I don’t exactly know what happened. I was gone maybe two, three minutes tops.” “You shouldn’t have been away from your post at all, [MASK].”

""	Jack	[MASK] saw her turn the corner. He looked in all directions before moving, a habit he had quickly cultivated and hoped he would be able to discard very soon. He moved quickly to meet her. The street was quiet.

Danny	Jenn	He was more exhausted than anything else. “Have a great life, [MASK]. I’d say I’d see you around but I really can’t imagine that happening.” He started to leave. She grabbed his sleeve.

""	Patterson	“How did the other two get assigned to him?” “I don’t know, we juggle stuff like that. Depends on who shows up for work sometimes.” “You remember any of those three being particularly interested in visiting the Sullivan place?” [MASK] shook his head.

""	Burton	The pain shot through his neck and he almost cried out. The President ran into the bedroom. He was wide-eyed, but still half-drunk. The memory of the last few hours had come back like a Boeing 747 landing on his head. [MASK] ran up behind him.

The mark	Frank	Then he noticed the mark on the wall. The place had real plaster walls instead of the usual drywall, but the mark was still deep. [MASK] noted the nightstand had been moved slightly; the thick carpet betrayed its original position.

Mr. Smith	Kirksen	The sneer quickly evaporated from the little man’s face. “I’ve been with this firm for almost twenty years.” “Sounds like it’s about time for a change then. Might do you good.” [MASK] sat down, removed a smudge from his glasses.

Mama	Frank	Her role was only that of a vegetable, but was right now the most important thing on earth to his little girl. “You sure?” “Just leave me a number where I can reach you.” [MASK] did so and hurried out.

""	Jack	The gun. He would see that gun appearing soon. It would be pointed right at him. [MASK] backed down the tunnel toward the kiosk. The man’s hand was going underneath his coat, a torn and beaten behemoth that spilled its woolen guts with every step.

""	Bayliss	And tell [MASK] to call me tonight. He’d be cooling his heels in some Bureau outpost in the middle of nowhere if I hadn’t pushed through his nomination as Director. I will not tolerate this disrespect.” “They’re most insistent, sir.”

Laura	Kate	[MASK] sat down and rubbed her thighs. She wore no makeup and had always been one of those women who didn’t need to. The strain was telling though, especially in and under her eyes, in the slope of her shoulders.

Bubbles	Simon	Swishes of air were heard as [MASK] squeezed the trigger on the spray bottle. Almost immediately, like a mass of lightning bugs, a very small portion of the carpet started to glow a pale blue and then disappeared.

""	Jack	“I shouldn’t have done what I did, [MASK]. Using her to get to her old man. Nobody deserves that.” “It worked. Some people would say don’t argue with success.” “Right. Well anyway the subject got around to you.

Ponyboy	Luther	[MASK] looked up at the darkness, which i he newly risen sun could not penetrate. Would he even be alive six months from now? Maybe not. They could conceivably find him, despite his precautions. But he planned to enjoy the time he had left.

Sally	Jack	“So you did have him fired?” “[MASK], I want you to stop thinking about that and start realizing the kind of future we’re going to have together. If we—” “Answer the goddamned question!” She exploded. “Yes!

""	Jack	For a moment she wondered if he knew. If he knew what she had done with him. Her body stiffened and then relaxed. He couldn’t know, that was impossible. She remembered his drunken pleadings; oh how a bottle of [MASK] could change a person.

Danny	Jack	He jumped in the passenger side. She looked at him. “I really have to get back.” [MASK] took a deep breath, wiped the moisture off his face. The heavy rain drummed on the car’s exterior. He felt it all slipping away.

Sally	Alan	“Does it really matter so much whether you win by sixty percent or seventy percent?” He whirled around. “Yes,” he hissed. “Yes, it goddamn does matter.” She bit her lip and retreated. “I’ll step up the effort, [MASK].

Bobby	Sullivan	To listen to the grief, the outpouring, to let [MASK] mourn his little hooker. The quicker that was done, the sooner they could get down to what really mattered: the next deal. “It was a beautiful service, people will remember it for a long time.”

""	Frank	The door opened and their coffee was delivered. It was gratefully hot and fresh. [MASK] had not been lying about the chill. “I won’t say she fit in real well with all those types of people, but she seemed to hold her own.

Man	Jack	Man, when I found my line was tapped, I thought my head was gonna explode. You were right though. So what do you get out of all this?” [MASK] looked at his friend and said simply, “I’m alive.

Gertrude	Frank	and she turned out to be right. She carefully dusted and lifted the print, filled out a card and nearly ran the entire way to [MASK]’s office. She found him with his hat and overcoat on, which he quickly removed.

Linda	Kate	[MASK] rubbed her eyes and, using a rubber band from the pile on her desk, pulled her hair back into a rough ponytail. She looked around her small, plain office; the case files were piled high around the room and for the millionth time she wondered if it would ever stop.

The Man	Jack	In the background, the air had exploded with sirens, all coming toward her. Toward [MASK]. She instinctively looked behind her. There was no sign of him. When she turned back, she was staring into a pair of smug eyes, framed under bushy eyebrows.

""	Sullivan	He had reconnoitered the area right after [MASK]’s phone call. The row house idea had hit him immediately. It was really the only logical place. He had been here since four in the morning. The back door to the house opened into an alleyway.

Spray	Frank	That could prove to be important later on. Much had been written about spray patterns. [MASK] respected their usefulness, but tried not to read too much into them. But if something had partially shielded the carpet from the blood, he would want to know what that something was.

""	Jack	“So what’s your idea then?” [MASK] rubbed back his hair, dug his fingers into his leg until the pain in his knee subsided and then lay down on the seat. “Who-ever’s behind all this wanted the letter opener back really bad.

""	Sullivan	“I don’t want anything leaking back to [MASK], that’s how come.” “You don’t think they’d try anything again?” “The only thing I know is that I don’t know the answer to that question and neither do you.

Catherine	Jack	“Yes, it does.” She smiled back at him, kissed his cheek gently. She took his arm and encircled her waist with it. [MASK] looked back at the mansion, soon to be his three-point-eight-million-dollar home.

Danny	Burton	The lights in the house had moved progressively from room to room until they reached the east side of the place, when all lights were dramatically extinguished. [MASK] looked at the dormant taillights of his partner’s car. The kid had made a mistake. Being here.

Bond	Burton	To most perhaps an unnecessary precaution, but to [MASK], no precaution was unnecessary. The police had one useless slug and would never find the other. Even if they could, the barrel on his new pistol would be squeaky clean.

Mr. Kruger	Burton	“When does he want the money again?” [MASK] looked at her. “If a wire transfer does not reach the designated account by close of business, there will be no tomorrow for any of us.”

Dubious	Simon	[MASK] looked dubious. “We’ll pull the carpet to see if any leaked through, but I doubt it. Not much soaks into a treated carpet. And any residue has been mixed with a lot of stuff. So don’t count on it.”

Franklin	Sullivan	Then the old man stumbled slightly but righted himself by grasping the arms of the President. After his guests had gone, [MASK] smoked a cigar in his study. As he moved to the window, the lights from the presidential motorcade quickly faded from view.

""	Jack	Dressed in yet another expensive evening gown, her hair tumbled down her shoulders framing significant cleavage. She was not smiling. “[MASK], what are you doing here?” “I want to talk to you.”

Ponyboy	Jack	But then [MASK] thought, his own reality was no longer normal, if it ever had been. Both he and the pathetic mass across from him were involved in their own peculiar struggles. And death could claim either of them, at any time.

""	Frank	They walked back to the garage together. [MASK] looked inside the van, at all the hoses, power handles, bottles and heavy cleaning equipment. “This the van you used to do the Sullivan place?” “This been my van for three years.

The President	Russell	“No argument there. Just like us all.” The President closed the binder he had been examining and stood up, surveyed the White House grounds from the window. “So the man will shortly be in custody?” He turned to look at [MASK].

Billy	Walter	For the fortunate few, wham, zero to the top in seconds. Improbable success is just that: improbable. But that’s what makes it so damn satisfying. By the way, let me shake your hand for taking such good care of [MASK].”

Dexter	Pettis	She knew [MASK]’s prints by heart now. He was unfortunate enough to have all arches, one of the rarest of fingerprint compositions, as well as a tiny scar on his thumb that had in fact led to his arrest years earlier for grand-theft auto.

Lisa	Seth	“I’ve already got it, [MASK],” she said. He nodded and picked up the picture. Nice-looking woman, he thought to himself, real nice-looking in a come-fuck-me kind of way.

""	Burton	“But again we’re confronted with the possibility of the police catching up to him—” “And him spilling his guts,” [MASK] finished the sentence. “Yeah, that’s a possibility. A real possibility.” The President picked up the photo.

Gerty	Luther	Her eyes closed once again, as her breathing turned perceptibly to a low moan. The man moved his attention again to her neck. His eyes were wide open, looking across at where [MASK] sat but with no idea of his presence.

Bastard	Frank	The Kansas license plates on the vehicle that had nearly crashed into them quickly disappeared. “Stupid tourists. Fucking bastards!” [MASK] gripped the steering wheel hard, his breath coming in gasps. The shoulder restraint had done its job, but it had dug deeply into his skin.

Birdie	Jack	“If you had I think my little bird would’ve told me. But if you want to insist on the point we can just wait for the lieutenant to show up and join the party.” [MASK] burst up from the bed and launched himself toward the door.

Sally	Kate	She finally looked at him. “I really don’t care what he says he’s going to do.” She touched her nose, which was red and swollen and hurt like hell. “Come on, [MASK].

""	Pettis’ll	“I’ve got sixty-five employees and a turnover rate of over sixty percent. I usually don’t even see the guy after he’s hired. Everybody starts to look the same after a while anyway. [MASK] remember.” “Anything else you think might help me?”

Daddy	Freeze	The image of his wife and three daughters veered across his mind until he pushed it back out. He needed to concentrate. He was finally close enough. He prayed his accelerated breathing would not betray him. He leveled his pistol at the broad back. “[MASK]!

Fortune 500	Alan	He could be so stupid sometimes. “You’re like a Fortune 500 company, [MASK], everything about you is public information.” “Well, not everything.” “That remains to be seen, doesn’t it?

""	Kate	[MASK] sat erect on the edge of the couch trying to remain calm, although her fingers kept fluttering to her small chain necklace, twisting and turning it into small knots, tiny centers of bedlam. “From what you’ve told me, Lieutenant, you don’t have much.

The Dude	Lord	[MASK] slumped back in his chair, his mass extrapolating outward until it fully engulfed the space. Outside the restaurant a truly beautiful fall day was unfolding. Neither rain nor excessive humidity marred the blue sky’s perfectness; the gentle breeze rustled discarded newspapers.

""	Luther	“[MASK] told me that if anything happened to him I was to wait a little bit and then I was to send the package on to you. He told me not to open it and I didn’t. He said it was like a Pandora’s box.

Johnny	Budizinski	The man was not particularly bright, had no previous police record and had spent his adult life performing menial tasks for a living, no doubt compelled by his having finished only the fifth grade. His apartment was modest to the point of near poverty. [MASK] was a dead end.

""	Jack	But that’s sent plenty of people to jail.” “I’m not arguing with that.” “The truth is, [MASK], there’s an awful lot of shit that doesn’t make any sense.”

Ponyboy	Jack	“That’s what I’m hoping. You knew him a lot better than I did. Maybe you’ll see something I don’t.” “Then I’m up to it.” Even forewarned, [MASK] was not prepared.

Normally a lot	Lord	Normally a lot. The problem was the ex-communists had no money, unless you counted rubles and coupons and kopecks and whatever else they were using these days, all of which might as well be used for toilet paper. That reality did not trouble [MASK].

The mirror	Kate	The entire facade of the building consisted of mirrored panels that gave a complete image of the area directly opposite it. The panel was heavy and even the burly men struggled with the weight and bulk. [MASK] bundled her coat around her and sipped her coffee.

Bullshit	Jack	[MASK] stared at him. “Bullshit. How’d they manage that?” “A little tricky from a legal-technical point of view. They prosecuted him under the murder-for-hire statute. That’s the only one where the trigger man rule doesn’t apply.”

Bobby	Lord	The trouble was, familiar faces kept disappearing as time moved forward, stolen away by death or retirement to points south. He removed a fleck of dust from one of his monogrammed shirt cuffs and sighed. [MASK] had picked this establishment, maybe this town, clean.

""	Jack	Then what?” She looked at him coldly. “Then it happens. That’s not my problem.” [MASK] got up and started to leave. Then he turned back, his face red with anger. “I’ll tell you how the funeral service goes.

""	Frank	“Right, so what would you do given those facts?” [MASK] pulled to the curb and put the car in park. He turned around. “I’d try to get something else on them. That’s what I’d do.” “How?

Donald	Jacobs	In the age of sound bites and photo ops, being able to look and talk a big game was an absolute necessity. [MASK] was not even the best among a very weak group that had seen its two leading candidates knocked out over assorted scandals, sexually based and otherwise.

Bond	McCarty	A wire transfer will be set up to funnel the fee to an account of your choosing. My planes will be available to you if the need arises. Understood?” [MASK] nodded, a little put off by his client’s series of commands.

