Daisy	Ram	"How could it be? She's happily married," said [MASK], "so it isn't, in the way you mean." What it was all about, apparently, was that he wanted to keep himself free (and pure?)

The Maze	Kachru	And every turn took him inwards into a maze. When, allowing time for several more flights to foreign capitals, no phone call came from [MASK]'s office, I tried once again and this time I got through to him.

Martha	Rose	Their future of security, of plenty, never seemed to arrive, and now she was deserting them too, the only tangible future they had disappearing out of their sight. [MASK] wept bitterly as she said goodbye, yet her resolve to go was quite weirdly unimpaired.

Ponyboy	Sonali	His survivor's skills had never been so evident, thought [MASK], making him appear a spectator to what must surely have been of his own designing. There was no other explanation for him, and not someone else, knocking her off her perch.

""	Lalaji	"I feel so miserable, I don't know what to say." "You saved a life today," said [MASK]. "It's my fault. I'm responsible — " "You are responsible for saving a life," he repeated.

""	Dev	Was this what [MASK] thought and felt about her? Or was she listening to a voice in herself? In normal houses sound travels freely, feelings go back and forth, up and down stairs, in and out of rooms, and fade out eventually like notes of music.

Penny	Rose	She kept turning eagerly to [MASK] as a child will, or a frisky puppy that romps ahead and looks back invitingly, head on one side. A face as clear-cut as if it had been snipped out of paper with a sharp and shining pair of scissors.

""	Memory	Nothing anywhere made sense, since in a moral universe either everything must have meaning or nothing. [MASK] dragged me backward to reports I had read with momentary shock and then deliberately pushed away because they were too terrible to remember. Appalling images marched through my mind.

""	Ravi	You are grossly muddled, [MASK] told me, look at the state of this room! You aren't willing to think straight and take the consequences. You've got to commit yourself like me. You'll never become effective till you do. Naturally I was muddled.

Mrs. Pryor	Kiran	Not that I connected much at dinner. [MASK] had insisted I leave off my glasses ("No one can see your beautiful eyes") and I got rather a dim picture of the opinion-makers of our society.

Agent	Dev	"I suppose it's more dignified to be an agent for a nonexistent car. And where am I supposed to get the money to buy an agency? Madam's son's agencies don't come cheap from what I've heard." "[MASK] will provide the money."

Laura	Marcella	She had married a man who'd made a fortune in the construction business, an impossibly good-looking husband who called her My darling as if he meant it, a fit companion for [MASK]'s hair which still looked washed and dried by the light of a crescent moon.

Turing	Ravi	I still don't know if a computer ticks, but this was 1959 and I didn't even know what a computer was. [MASK] held his wine glass up to watch the sun glint through it and cheerfully agreed we were hopelessly ignorant about that sort of thing.

D'you	Marcella	"Isn't it the same as before?" "Yes, it is. D'you like it?" "Of course." He seemed surprised. But the implacable, eternal, unchangeable hair of [MASK] troubled her dreams.

Gertrude	Ram	And though the only communication between her and [MASK] now was the flicker of recognition his eyes sometimes had, that feeble flicker, more vital than the rest of the household put together, spoke volumes, telling her their need was mutual, that each would live only as long as the other.

Pip	Ram	It was unhealthy how that child clung to his mother all the time, how the servants followed him around with food and toys when he wouldn't eat, and just followed him around. He was the centre of a houseful of adorers and [MASK] spoiled him rotten too.

Expropriate	Ravi	Why had nobody, nobody at all, put those words together in exactly this eight-word formation before? Then there was Expropriate the expropriators. Did any phrase in any scripture pack more power? There is no doubt [MASK] and I were seduced partly by the language.

Martha	Nishi	He turned back to the shelf. [MASK] suppressed her annoyance. "I've brought some fruit and chocolates for her." He grunted, not asking her to sit down. It was his oaf of a servant who ambled round and brought her a rickety chair.

Meg	Kumar	[MASK] and I managed conversation between us, rallying ourselves with the friendly feel of possessions we'd seen her use. We had known her a long time, I through all the ages and stages of my life, as one knows brightness, warmth and the comfort of everyday things.

Martha	Rose	There was no need to make statements at the front door either to arrivers or leave-takers, but I heard him murmur how avoidable this tragedy had been. [MASK] had drunk too much, walked out of the house after dinner, unsteady on her feet, gone to the well, fallen in.

""	Dev	The three of them would live and die together, an impossible situation that entered the realm of possibility every morning when she went down the stairs into the household and tried to discover ways to make it work. She tried to win [MASK].

The head tea drinker	K.L.	You are so-and-so, declared the head tea drinker. After all these years [MASK] hadn't got ranks in the army, navy, air force and police force sorted out, since uniformed authority had not impinged much if at all on his life.

Mrs. Belgrave	Mona	He was too preoccupied to listen much when she spoke of [MASK]'s health. He spent a lot of time these days listening earnestly to the woes of the First Secretary to the Belgian embassy's wife, whose husband didn't understand her or any of their six children.

Lisa	Rose	[MASK] put her handbag down below the counter, picked it up again, fidgeted with its clasp and said for no rhyme or reason, it wasn't the day for it, "I think I'll go and get my hair done."

John	Rose	I called his name again and again. There was not a flicker from him, not even the feeble sign of awareness [MASK] used to say she saw. It might as well have been a corpse on the bed. His coma was complete.

Martha	Mona	The occupants of the ground floor were rigidly against her, yet every day she got up breathing hope, and a painful, problem-filled happiness carried her through the hours. The shop was easier because it was not one iota [MASK]'s.

Daisy	Marcella	And after all it needn't be a lifelong commitment," said [MASK] gaily. "If you find you don't enjoy it, you can always do something else later, when the Emergency is over." "Over?" A word can start the rumour of a rainbow.

Savage	Nishi	commanded [MASK] in a voice like the savage scream she remembered at the end of her last indescribable effort before her body was delivered of her two children, the crowning of the only two acts of her life there had been no stopping until their bitter end.

Maggie	Rose	From my desk in the office I rang [MASK], the first long personal chat I had had in weeks, and I felt much more human afterwards. "I do want your advice," she said, "but tomorrow morning is the Happyola foundation stone ceremony.

Gerald	Dev	"And who'll provide the car? Or will [MASK] pull it out of a hat?" He was in one of his tiresome moods and her patience snapped. "Why can't you just do as I say?" she cried.

""	Rose	If only she'd be dead, dead, dead, she had hammered out the thought night after night after night. It is wicked to think such thoughts. [MASK], she has done you no harm and it isn't her fault. The night hung endlessly about.

Raj	Kiran	What a racket! They will overdo things," my mother complained as we drove through the gates into the overdone rainbow lighting of the garden. "Punjabis have no taste." [MASK] and I followed her into the room where the bride waited, looking like a tent.

Daisy	Sonali	[MASK], you're home! I was going to leave a message with your cook to ring me when you got back. What're you doing back at this time of day? But I'm glad I got you. Can you come and see me tomorrow?"

Molly	Ram	She cradled her glass of gin in the palm of her hand, half of it already warm and consoling inside her, and tried to imagine life in this house when [MASK]'s symbolic presence wasn't in it any more.

Bhagat Singh	Partition	He wished to explain with strict accuracy, in the manner of the history researcher he might have become if [MASK] had not hit him, that he belonged to the Jan Sangh party as a matter of principle and not because he was a Hindu, because in any case he was an atheist.

""	Power	They, them, the ruling class on one side, the ruled on the other. [MASK] had changed hands but what else had changed where he lived? If ever there had been an emergency, it was this. "There are laws to protect tenants.

Gerald	Pritam	" "There's a certain taste that likes a sweet snippet to eat with a liqueur," [MASK] was elaborating. "Champagne is served at the end of a meal with the sweet, so why shouldn't a morsel of some kind be served with liqueurs?

Ponyboy	Sonali	He sounded amazed and delighted, my voice his dream of many moons, vibrant chords of discovery in his own, like a spadeful of earth turned over and lo and behold violets! [MASK]! Tell me what I can do for you!

Gertrude	Ram	She didn't have the refinement, she never would, and she was getting fat. At a time when she would have liked to settle down to a comfortable, quiet, unambitious life with [MASK], private life seemed to have ended for ever.

Gertrude	Ram	Or what was left of [MASK]'s life, for their two lives had never been so vitally linked, even though he lay speechless after his stroke, his study next door converted into a hospital room with a drip machine, a bedpan and a nurse on duty.

Gerty	J.P.	I'll give you that. But if two people marry because they are fond of each other, then what need would there be of dowry? [MASK] had smiled and said it was a new approach, and maybe the one we should propound.

Ponyboy	K.L.	Still, [MASK] would have to make the best of it, and he did. The youngster told him he had sincerely tried to make a revolution years earlier and then given it up temporarily because he had got discouraged and decided to get on with his studies.

""	Nishi	The convent was the only place, until the Emergency made the country as comforting, where [MASK] had not been in doubt about anything. The country had been in a mess, people screaming for more wages or bonus, or just screaming, too many political parties, so humiliating to explain to foreigners.

The Three Stooges	Rose	We looked at each other and at [MASK]'s puzzled expression, and the three of us were rocking and gasping with laughter, making a vast amount of noise. No one who Knew Better or Best was with us to tell us to behave ourselves.

Daphne	Dev	And then again she had hardly realized he was there all the years he was poor [MASK], failing exams, eating stacks of chicken sandwiches by the Gymkhana swimming pool and getting into boyish scrapes with scions of the best families.

Dorothy	Ram	Whatever the reason she was good and stuck. The Christian ceremony she'd never had put it in a nutshell. For better or for worse. She poured a cup of tea and handed it to [MASK]. "Suppose a woman married five brothers today?"

""	Dick	Whatever happened, she lost. "I forgot to tell you, [MASK] rang when he got to the office to say there's going to be a procession starting in about half an hour's time and there's bound to be trouble in the streets.

Ponyboy	Mona	"His mind is not on it, poor boy. We must start looking for a girl for him." "He's only twenty, [MASK]. He ought to get down to work first." "What is twenty, a mere child."

Daisy	Rose	[MASK] became severe. "You could've helped by not starting this rigmarole." It was why she forgot to thank him or to feel surprised that it had got beyond him, as he said. He should have known it would when he started it.

The Jungle Book	Gandhi	Words that had existed in no Indian language. This was the language of a new epic, invented by [MASK]. The man had used his brains, and what we needed now was a like inventiveness to suit our own conditions.

Mamaji	Ravi	[MASK] had a way of helping himself to the juiciest morsels out of each katori while he kept me talking, whipping the rice into little hills and polishing them off while I looked out of the window, and getting to the marrow bone and the fat pieces of chaman before me.

Ponyboy	Rose	If a seesaw is what I've chosen to live on. I'll live on it and make the best of it. But it was you. [MASK], who came along and made me see it was a seesaw I was on and that I was neither doomed nor dying!"

""	Rose	"We have to meet those people. [MASK]. No one can do business without connections of this kind." "Your father did." "My father did business in simpler times, when he wasn't harassed by so many restrictions and didn't have to finance politicians."

Ponyboy	Ravi	"No, not while he's here. But how long's he here for?" And the rigid circumscribed dial of clock time took over, its minutes relentlessly replacing each other. "I wish I could have helped," said [MASK].

""	Crowds	If the car dissolved and disappeared he would become one of them, the same strange cry of Inquila-a-b issuing from his throat. [MASK] thumped and bumped against the car, hands smeared the window glass she had rolled up in a sudden panicky need for protection.

Theodore	Hinduism	At what stage of evolution can we get up one morning and say. Now we have outgrown this, we must move on to something else? So [MASK] remains, as uplifting as salvation, as destructive as slavery, and we must reckon with it.

Mme. de Villeparisis	Ram	But now with acute anguish long past, she could admire this gossamer creature who alone in all the world had ever turned [MASK] upside down and inside out, drink her champagne and enjoy her husband's Baroque and Rococo.

Ponyboy	Neel	You just get on with producing flashlights, which is what [MASK] was doing, and putting away the profits (some in hard cash for the leader) and be thankful you can still drink Scotch and not awful Indian whisky.

Mama	Nishi	Her mother had telephoned an hour ago with the news that her father had been in jail for a week, and for the past hour [MASK] had been unable to move, rooted to the chair facing the blood splatter with the telephone beside it.

Papa	Ram	"My father's a genius in his own way," said [MASK]. "If he hadn't had a genius for making money, he would have become the prophet of some terrible, flesh-mortifying order. He goes all out for whatever he does."

Penny	Rose	It frightened me. People like [MASK] have inextinguishable fountains of optimism. This wasn't like her at all. She was not meant to feel lonely or grow old like the rest of us, like me, already so much older than her at thirty-eight.

Naxalite	K.L.	The boy said he had, which enabled [MASK] to docket him in the conscience-stricken affluent class. He had been there to university, that's what had made him want to become a Naxalite, but that was a different story.

Bhaskar	Madam	And here he was again, this time without a nine-months-pregnant wife, and [MASK]'s police force was finding it hard to call five an illegal crowd and disband it in a street where crowds were a permanent fixture and cows and calves staggered against cycle rickshaws.

Billy	Rose	"I 'adn't 'eard there's a car," said [MASK], betraying the gins she's had before lunch, "'ow's a car that's not there going to 'it the road?"

Rajiv Gandhi	Neuman	Strikes are banned. It's going to be very good for business." [MASK] had seen huge posters of the Prime Minister's stem unsmiling face, and hoardings proclaiming the nation's support for the Emergency declared a month earlier, all over the city.

Uncle	Ram	"You wouldn't want to, with Uncl^ [MASK] here." "No, not while he's here. But how long's he here for?" And the rigid circumscribed dial of clock time took over, its minutes relentlessly replacing each other.

""	Rose	His father's two cables summoning him home remained unanswered, and the enormity of the omission did not worry him. Yet [MASK] showed not the slightest sign of relenting, though she knew perfectly well who he was. He was a man. He was rich.

Penny	Rose	[MASK] was as distraught as her mother, as baffled as her father, and she couldn't explain what she was doing. She didn't know herself any more. Leaving her parents was the only deliberately cruel thing she had ever done.

disappear	Ram	Entire lifetimes couldn't disappear without a trace. What, in any case, does "disappear" mean, only that we can't see it any more, but it must be there, turned transparent till it's recalled. Her power of recall since [MASK]'s illness astonished her.

Ponyboy	Zafar	His death was the end of the old days and they spent their own last days in the beleaguered city in [MASK]'s home recalling the past, with piece after piece of it sinking out of sight as they talked. And who was happy?

Lucky	Rose	She heard women telling her mother, "You don't know how lucky you are." And here was [MASK], lucky too, her life enough of a muddle without a child added to it. The women down the road of her childhood would have told her.

""	Rose	They heard him on the stair bringing their tray. He set it down quietly and went away. [MASK] got out of bed and sat in one of the two hard wooden chairs kept on the terrace for their morning tea. Her back felt very straight.

Bhaiyon aur behenoti	Muslims	And it said, "Bhaiyon aur behenoti" — "Brothers and Sisters," a conventional enough opening. What is more, he could see each brother and each sister. For instance, the first sixty-five rows on the left were [MASK].

Duck	Ravi	Because there's nothing to tell, ducks. Like I said, it's the way things have been arranged since time began. There's some that do the ordering and others that take orders. Well, here's to change then, said [MASK], raising his glass.

Daisy	Marcella	You couldn't call it showing off because [MASK] doesn't show off. She's the queen bee and she doesn't need to. It's just that she knows better. They, all that lot, know better. They know best and it's no good arguing.

Mosquitoes	Ram	She lay watched by the eye of a vertical staring moon, listening to the singing needle-and-thread sound of mosquitoes celebrating their life and times around the mosquito netting. [MASK] had told her if you can hear them singing they are not malaria mosquitoes.

Mrs. Wilson	Dev	" "His daughter-in-law is the collector. [MASK]'s been to her with a suitcase full of it. I heard him telling about it. She doesn't even count it. She knows exactly how much it is by tossing it up and down in her hand.

Molly	Nishi	The other day she had been about to ask him about himself when [MASK] came tearing out of the house to join her. But usually she was alone and it was episodes of the past pushing and plucking at her like children demanding her attention that kept her from finding out more about him.

Gertrude	Mona	Ad readers wanted details. One could have one's own idea of handsomeness but calling a person educated meant listing degrees. But if there weren't any, better leave that vague too and hope for the best. "Now for the girl," said [MASK].

Papa	Dev	[MASK], turning himself over in his cot, crawling around in it, pulling himself up by its bars, rising sturdily to his feet and arriving in the garden, was suddenly visible for the first time since he had left the womb.

""	Kiran	My heart felt like a stone. "[MASK]'s wedding won't be like that, will it, will it?" I harried my mother on the way home. "Certainly not, we're not Punjabis. Nor will yours." "What are we?"

Martha	Dev	She had cried out and flown to him, trying futilely to raise the heavy body, then putting a cushion under his head and loosening his tie. "Stop behaving like a headless chicken. Leave him alone," [MASK] commanded. "I'll ring for a doctor."

Laura	Ram	Between [MASK] and herself there had been a five-year spell of amnesia, when, their day-to-day contact cut off, they had moved in unconnected worlds. There was a stale and tired edge to him on his return.

Wolfing	Dev	And really, how could she say this to a doting mother, but [MASK] seemed *to be making a career of wolfing down sandwiches and ice cream by the Club pool when he was not at the cinema or fooling around at the home of some retarded acquaintance.

Meg	Sonali	It will depend upon your performance in your B.A., [MASK]. If you think universities abroad take third-rate students, you can think again. And that is probably what drove me to frantic competition, to stardom in my studies, to deliverance from suitable "boys" and marriage, abroad.

Dumbledore	Rose	I owe you an apology." [MASK] was overwhelmed. Monuments of stone and steel do not apologize. If he had not been so forbiddingly unapproachable she would have hugged him for being so generous, though it still did not absolve her.

Maharaja	Mummy	and the next minute you're an enter-prenner and a bloomin' millionaire. Where's all the money come from all of a sudden. I'd like to know? I like maharajas better." "Really, [MASK], what's the connection?

Ponyboy	Kachru	Got you! and turn you into a sweet and docile nature. And when [MASK] became "the boy" I was caught and pinned like a butterfly by his mother's fond looks as I passed through a room.

""	Rose	"What's the matter?" I managed to ask weakly. "It'll wait till you're better, love. Do you need anything? Shall I come and see you?" I said no. I couldn't face anyone even as loving as [MASK] yet.

Lady	Rose	"I'm dreadfully sorry. [MASK]. You were right when you once said some things never change." But it was other changes, the established order she had been talking of at the time, not pickpockets, highway robbers and bandits getting away scot free.

Madness	J.P.	This, the biggest crowd I had ever seen, had brought itself there. If [MASK] was public enemy No. One, inciting the army to revolt and the people to lawlessness and disorder, as the Emergency declaration later said, then the government was stark staring mad.

""	Neel	He wouldn't be chairman of the New Entrepreneurs if he didn't know his job." "Is that what he is now!" He nodded and turned to [MASK] again, "Have you joined it?" "Not yet, but I will.

Mr. Percival	Cooper	"He doesn't see why Indian cotton should be sold back to us at enormous prices as English cloth. And when we have trees loaded with citrus fruit why should we have only [MASK]'s marmalade in the shops? My father's a businessman."

Ponyboy	Ravi	I would as soon have joined the army. I felt well and happy with a little disorder around me, insurance that we were human beings, not sardines. The perfect neatness of [MASK]'s room unnerved me so much that we began to get together more often in mine.

Phoebe	Rose	How dare you, how dare you, she wanted to shriek insanely, he's been through too much already. How dare you mention his name, someone might hear. [MASK], seeing her narrowed pupils, those of a cat's poised to kill, said no more.

Gertrude	Jail	[MASK] gave you time to think of matters like that. Why didn't I become a blackmarketeer when I had the chance? It's black money to you but it would give us the money to join the club where the girls would find better matches.

Bobby	JP	"I don't believe it. I know someone very high up in the administration who says prisoners are being very well looked after. [MASK]'s not even in jail, he's in hospital. "After they've finished with him he'll be ready for his grave.

""	Nishi	You see there're going to be several youth camps one after another, as soon as the rains are over." "Is that what those toughs with pistols have been coming about?" "Must be," said [MASK] absently.

Johnny	Rose	He woke with a frightened jerk and came towards me shivering and muttering, moving with his sideways crawl. I sat down facing him and I knew what [MASK] had meant when she said, A man should at least be able to wipe away his own tears.

Peggy	Rose	But she felt no safer between glass windows a stone could easily smash, and the dirty hand marks on them were as insulting as blows on her cheeks. The driver, usually so careful with the car, did not even order hands off the glass. Fright convulsed [MASK].

