Democracy	Lanny	[MASK] maintained that these countries, being “democracies,” could bring about the changes peaceably. That was his way; he didn’t want to hurt anybody, but to discuss ideas politely and let the best ideas win.

""	Lanny	Her bathroom was of massive porphyry and her tub of silver; in the basement was a swimming-pool of gold mosaic. [MASK], who had never had a bath here, wondered if the very proper Duquesa Marqueni had retained these Byzantine splendors.

Gerty	Lanny	But still she didn’t say anything; she wanted to be fair, and she knew that [MASK] had been fair—he had \told her about his eccentricities before he asked for her, and she lhad taken him on his own terms.

""	Bess	Do you think you can solve all the problems of the world?” [MASK] wanted to reply: “It is your bourgeois mind.” But you can’t say that to your hostess, so she would content herself with the statement: “These are my comrades and this is my cause.”

Socrates	Lanny	He ardently desired the approval of his fellows, yet he would study them and pass judgments indicating that their opinion was not worth so very much. Finally, with his keen mind he observed these conflicts in himself, and to [MASK], whom he trusted, he would blurt them out in disconcerting fashion.

Ponyboy	Lanny	Now her dark hair was disordered—apparently they hadn’t wished to disturb her even that much. [MASK] tiptoed into the room, and she opened her eyes slowly, as if with an effort; when she recognized him she gave him a feeble smile.

Gerty	Marceline	[MASK] didn’t know anything about politics, but she knew some of the arts, including that of coquetry. Half French and half American, she also had been brought up among older people, but of a different sort.

""	Rahel	the poor man of millions seemed to be saying. “Here is [MASK] with a baby who has to be nursed, and here is the lovely baby of your adored brother; here is this ship of dreams which exists for the happiness of all of you.

Tory	Rick	[MASK] sent his friend a bunch of clippings, showing how the man who had once lost his seat in the House of Commons for his convictions had now become the hero and darling of those who had unseated him. The entire capitalist press had rallied behind him, praising his action as the greatest of public services.

""	Lanny	“Oh, no, of course not. You will shake hands with him.” “Shall I address him as lEr'?" [MASK] had read a recent announcement of the introduction of this custom, previously reserved for royalty. It meant speaking in the third person.

Ponyboy	Lanny	You have given him offense, and you will have to pretend that you are petitioning for pardon.” [MASK] said it with a smile, but the Knight Commander and Grand Officer was serious; he replied that if it would get him a message from the source desired he would submit to torture from real Indians.

Gerty	Alfy	Now he would take a turn at being the “angel”; a higher, celestial kind, for whom she wouldn’t have to act anywhere but on the stage. II The play was finished early in April, and the family went north, with [MASK] returning to school.

Ponyboy	Lanny	[MASK]’s father had been here, trying to get a share; it had been his first fiasco, and the beginning of a chain of them for all parties concerned. Instead of peace the nations had got more armaments and more debts.

Robin	Hansi	There was nothing in the physical aspect of [MASK] to suggest the robin, but when you listened to his music you remembered that the robin’s wings are marvels of lightness and grace, and that every feather is a separate triumph.

Or	Lanny	Or would it fill them with dreams of rising to the heaven where the elegant rich ladies were kept? [MASK], surveying his alluring spouse, knew that there was in all the world no stronger bait for the soul and mind of a man.

Ponyboy	Irma	[MASK] tried to tell herself that he didn’t really mean it; but no, he was a determined man, and there often came a grim look on his face; you could imagine him willing to shoot people who stood in his way.

""	Lanny	The other laughed and replied: “Then you can tell me the inside story!” He seemed to take the view that [MASK], an American, was above the battle. Was it that a young Nazi craved the admiration of a foreigner?

French	Irma	[MASK] hadn’t met them before, but had heard a lot about them, and felt herself being fascinatingly French when she welcomed the family of her husband’s former mistress. They, for their part, appeared to take it as a matter of course, which made it still more French.

Ponyboy	Lanny	Very important, that; the father had found out last October what a convenient thing it was to have the Barnes fortune back of you. He hoped that [MASK] wasn’t going to fail to make a success of it.

Coward	Irma	“But such a member, [MASK]! He’ll make himself an international CONSCIENCE DOTH MAKE COWARDS scandal. I ought to have mentioned to you that he’s gone into a working-class district and is running against a Socialist.”

""	Lanny	[MASK] said: “Asseyez-vous, Madame,” and not another word was spoken. The retired munitions king was inconspicuously dressed, and one who was not familiar with his photograph might have taken him for a retired business man, a college professor or doctor.

""	Lanny	[MASK] spoke no more. It made him sad to see his two foster sons —they were supposed to be something like that—going the road of Fascism; but there was nothing he could do about it. He knew that their mother had shared these tendencies.

""	Lanny	[MASK] wasn’t content to read the regular newspapers, but had to seek out the Pink and Red ones, and then tell his wealthy friends what he had found there. Not many would believe him, and not one had any idea what to do about it.

Mask	Lanny	And is that easier to credit than survival of the personality?” Said [MASK]: “It is reasonable to think that there might be a core of the consciousness which survives for a time, just as the skeleton survives the body.”

Gerty	Irma	“How could he spare the time to come here?” “He came on business. He wants you to sell some of his paintings.” “Oh, my God, [MASK]! I can’t sell those things, and he knows it.”

Budd	Lanny	There were details to be attended to; in half an THE OLD BEGINNING hour or so it should be possible for monsieur to see both mother and daughter. “Tout de suite! Soyez tranquille!" The teacher of piano had [MASK] Budd by the hand and was shaking it vigorously.

""	Lanny	But those politicians, and intellectuals who want to be politicians but don’t know how—” [MASK] laughed; he saw that she was beginning to use her own head. “What you have to do,” he cautioned, “is to consider principles and not individuals.

""	Hitler	“O Lord, make us free! ” prayed [MASK] over the radio, and loud-speakers spread his words in every market-square in every town. On Sunday the people voted, and the Nazi vote increased from nearly twelve million to more than seventeen million.

Mussolini	Johannes	So it came about that [MASK] was helping to maintain the coalition government of the Republic and at the same time supporting several of the ambitious Nazis; for, under the strain of impending national bankruptcy, who could tell what might happen?

Gerty	Kurt	She renewed her admiration for the German Volk. They stayed at the Schloss, even though the Graf was not at home. [MASK] had a new “Junker,” and so had his brother’s family and his sister’s.

""	Lanny	he inquired. “Oh, my gosh!” exclaimed [MASK], taken aback. “He wouldn’t be interested in me.” “He says he would.” “What did you tell him about me?”

All that	Lanny	All that [MASK] and his royal spouse had to do was to be happy, and they had the most expensive toys in the world to play with. The estate had been created for that purpose, and thousands of skilled workers had applied their labor and hundreds of technicians had applied their brains to its perfection.

""	Max	They tell stories about you. Do you wish to hear them?” “That is not what I came for.” “There is a big strong man with a white beard; it looks like your own, only more of it. He gives the name [MASK].

""	Rick	“I don’t say it would be easy,” replied the young idealist. “What makes it hard is exactly what makes it important.” “I don’t dispute the need,” [MASK] said. “But it would cost a pile of money.

Anglomania	Irma	Many Americans did this; it was a definite disease, known as “Anglomania.” Upper-class Englishmen were tall and good-looking, quiet and soft-spoken, cordial to their friends and reserved to others; [MASK] thought that was the right way to be.

Gerty	Lanny	“Maybe so; but won’t they think there must be something wrong with us?” “I assure you, my dear, they all know exactly what you are worth.” “[MASK], that’s a horrid view to take of people!”

""	Hansi	Nothing was allowed to interfere with [MASK]’s violin practice; it was his task to master one great concert piece 234 after another—which meant that he had to fix in his head hundreds of thousands of notes, together with his own precise way of rendering each one.

Ponyboy	Lanny	Was it easier to believe that than to believe that the spirits of dead persons were sending communications to the living? [MASK] found it so; for he had lived long enough to watch the human mind develop along with the body and to decay along with it.

Manifestly	Lanny	Manifestly, if the accoucheur had encountered trouble, he wouldn’t come running out to tell the expectant father; he’d be busy, and so would the nurses. Only when it was all over Would anyone break the tragic news; and then [MASK] would never be able to forgive himself.

Gerty	Lanny	That was what this splendid home was for; so that [MASK] wouldn’t have to meet his friends in crowded caf6s, where they were jostled and could hardly hear one another’s voices, but might sit in comfort and express themselves with leisure and dignity.

""	Zaharoff	“He says you robbed him. What is it he is talking about? He keeps saying gall; you have gall; many sackfuls of gall. Is it a joke he is making? ” “It must be.” [MASK] spoke with quiet decisiveness.

""	Johannes	He was right, and told his father that everything had gone well. [MASK] didn’t ask for particulars; instead he had tidings to impart. “The Reichstag building is burning.” “HerrgottJ” exclaimed the son, and turned and repeated the words to the others.

Darling	Wickthorpe	“Darling,” he answered, “[MASK] is a member of the British aristocracy, and is here to fight for the Empire. He’s got pretty much of everything he wants, so naturally he can take things easy.”

Museum	Zoltan	She paid attention and tried to understand the points which [MASK] explained: the curves of mountains or the shape of trees which made a balanced design in a landscape; the contrasting colors of an interior; the way figures had been placed and lines arranged so as to lead the eye to one central feature.

Gerty	Hitler	Also, during the summer he had been getting the German papers, and these had been full of a furious party conflict over the question of the old program, which [MASK] had been paring down until now there was nothing left of it.

Iroquois	Zaharoff	But [MASK] had placed a chair, possibly with the idea that the younger man’s help might be needed for the guiding of the experiment. Suddenly came the massive voice of the Iroquois chieftain, speaking English, as always.

""	Lanny	If after a certain hour he had not arrived, the servants ate what they wanted and gave the rest to worthy poor. The duquesa’s bybloemen and bizarres still bloomed in her garden, fifteen springtimes after she had shown them to [MASK].

""	Tecumseh	Many of us have had to do it.” There was a pause, and then [MASK] was speaking. “They are all laughing. They tell me not to mind if you do not speak the truth. You are a very important man, they say.

""	Wagner	Someone with a sense of drama has planned all this; someone who has learned from [MASK] how to combine music, scenery, and action so as to symbolize the fundamental aspirations of the human soul, to make real to the common man his own inmost longing.

""	Lanny	Now your President Oovay has declared a moratorium on reparations, so that chapter is at an end—and we have received almost nothing.” [MASK] wanted to say: “You received twenty-five billions of francs under the Dawes plan, and the products have glutted the world markets.”

""	Lanny	The beau monde came back from the mountains and the sea, and there were the autumn Salons, and operas and concerts and all the things that [MASK] loved; there were balls and parties, an automobile show and other displays of luxury.

Ponyboy	Hindemith	He had to let the tailors come and measure him for new clothes, and stand patiently while they made a perfect fit. No matter how bored he was, no matter how much he would have preferred trying some of [MASK]’s new compositions!

""	Lanny	He got fun out of arguing with his Red uncle, and used him for teasing other people. [MASK] went over to the villa and came back with a tall, oddlooking man, having an almost entirely bald head fairly baked by the sun—for he went about most of the time without a hat.

""	Irma	[MASK] wasn’t clever; but that is a quality for the “outs,” whereas she was among the “ins.” She was serene and gracious, and as she moved among this elegant company little shivers of happiness ran over her

Salonniere	Irma	The problem, [MASK] decided, was not to get them to talk, but to get them to stop! The function of a salonniere was to apportion ■the time, to watch the audience and perceive when it wanted a change and bring about the change so tactfully that nobody noticed it.

""	Lanny	“Did he hear something bad?” “Very bad indeed.” “Somebody is dead?” [MASK] thought that was an easy way out. “Yes,” he said. “He was not prepared for it and did not want to show his feelings.”

""	Lanny	They must be on the lookout for a young genius to promote. [MASK] knew that his wife was casting around in her mind for some sort of career, some way to spend her money that would win his approval as well as that of their friends.

""	Lanny	He had seated himself on the edge of a straight chair, as if he wasn’t sure that he would be welcomed; he had kept his walking-stick, and was leaning on it with both hands folded over it. The cold blue eyes met [MASK]’s.

Theda	Irma	Threats to the social order had never been real to [MASK]—at least not up to the time of the panic. During that convulsion she had heard many strange ideas discussed, and had begun to wonder about them.

Ponyboy	Lanny	They took their art with them, a storehouse of loveliness, a complex of ingenuities, a treasure-chest of delights which you could never empty. [MASK] had stabbed away at the piano all his life, but now he discovered that he had been skimming over the surface of a deep ocean.

Pinkerton	Lanny	[MASK] thought about the great composer, friend of mankind and champion of the oppressed. His concerto had been played badly in his own lifetime, and what a revelation it would have been to him to hear it rendered by a soloist and a conductor, neither having a score.

""	Lanny	He could be frank to the point of dubious taste, or he could be DRAGON’S TEETH devious as any of the diplomats whom [MASK] had watched at a dozen international conferences. He would drive a hard bargain, and then turn around and spend a fortune upon hospitality to that same person.

""	Hitler	[MASK] was launched upon a tirade; he rushed at the man—not to strike him, but to thrust the accusing finger within a couple of inches of the big nose and shriek: “Your intrigues are known! Your insolence is resented!

""	Lanny	The commercial magazine field was pretty crowded, and a propaganda paper never paid expenses, but cost like sin. [MASK] said: “Well, I’ve spent my share on sin, and I might try something else for a change.” DR A GON’S TEETH

Ponyboy	Jascha	It was a bit unsatisfactory, for there were many members of that family, and [MASK] had lost track of them; he said that he never heard from them except when someone needed money for some worthy purpose, and all purposes were worthy.

Ponyboy	Tecumseh	“[MASK],” as he called himself, was whimsical and self-willed, and would tell something or refuse to tell, according to whether or not you were respectful to him and whether or not the sun was shining in the spirit world.

Ponyboy	Freddi	How [MASK] adored that gentle, sweet wife, and how he shivered with delight while gazing upon the mite of life which they had created! Nearly three months had passed since he had seen them both, and a newborn infant changes a lot in that time.

queen	Lanny	[MASK] was fascinated to observe his young wife functioning in the role which she had chosen for herself. She was not yet twenty-four, but she was a queen, and had found out how queens conduct themselves. No worry, no strain, no sense of uncertainty.

Ponyboy	Irma	If this depression goes on, they’ll be glad to work for their keep, and that’ll be fair.” “But suppose your income goes on dropping, [MASK]! ” “If the world comes to an end, how can anybody say what he’ll do!

Mourn	Lanny	He mourned his beloved Spanish duquesa of the many names. Did he contemplate the possibility of being reunited to her? [MASK] had something to say to him on that subject, but must wait until the two traders had got through with their duel of wits.

""	Pete	“[MASK]” was to have the news the moment it happened; but it refused to happen, and maybe wasn’t going to happen. “I know how you feel,” said the correspondent, sympathetically. “I’ve been through it.”

Ponyboy	Maxim	He made millions, but you made tens of millions. There was no stopping you. [MASK] says he did not believe in the future life, but he warns you, it is a mistake; you will be happier if you change all that materialism.

""	Lanny	“I really think she’s happier since the crash,” said the husband. He didn’t add: “I have kept my promise to stay out of the market.” [MASK] knew he didn’t break promises.

Gerty	Lanny	“I didn’t buy them for art,” insisted the other; “but I do like them, and maybe I’ll hang them in this room if they won’t hurt your feelings.” [MASK] got out the canvases and set them up against two chairs.

""	Hitler	It was true that the school had been built and endowed by a German patron. Said [MASK]: “That kind of thing will be the glory of our National Socialist administration; there will be such an outburst of artistic and musical genius as will astound the world.”

Ponyboy	Irma	[MASK] looked about her uneasily, and was glad she had had the sense not to wear any of her jewels to this place. It wasn’t safe anyhow, for the National Socialists often raided the crowds coming out from Red meetings, and there were fights and sometimes shootings.

Gerty	Irma	“Oh, dear! ” exclaimed [MASK]. “Such a bore! ” But she didn’t want to be left in a hotel room alone, so she said: “Let’s not stay too late.”

VIII	Lanny	VII [MASK] was touched by the pride with which the young official revealed and explained the complex organization he had helped to build; its various departments and subdivisions, each having an official endowed with one of those elaborate titles which Germans so dearly love.

""	Irma	“I don’t mind his giving money away,” said [MASK]. “If only he didn’t have to meet such dreadful people—and so many of them!” “He’s interested in ideas; and apparently they come nowadays from the lower strata.

""	Hansi	“And the reactionary princes conspiring with them, and the great capitalists putting up money to pay for the arms!” Thus [MASK], stepping onto dangerous ground, since his father was one of those capitalists. How much longer was that secret going to be kept in the Robin family?

Ponyboy	Tecumseh	She declared again and again that she did these things because she was poor and had to earn her living. She insisted, furthermore, that she had never heard the voice of [MASK], and knew about him only what her many clients had told her.

The Economist	Lanny	The baronet’s son watched everything that went on in the world, analyzed the various tendencies, and set forth his understanding of them in newspaper articles which [MASK] would clip and send to persons with whom he got into arguments. Not that he ever converted anybody, but he kept his cause alive.

Pleasure	Lanny	Where would they have taken PLEASURE AT THE HELM him, and what would they have done with him? [MASK] had put such pressure on his father in the matter of playing the stock market, and had got away with it.

Ponyboy	Zaharoff	[MASK] wasn’t an eager scientist, loving truth for truth’s sake; he was a man tottering on the edge of the grave, wanting to believe that when he departed this earth he was gping to join the woman who had meant so much to hhn.

Ponyboy	Lanny	“I don’t think it’s kind of you, [MASK]. There’s no sense in your bothering to make money when I have it. If you have any time to sell, do please let me buy it!” They had talked about this many times.

""	Grandfather	“Plenty of our Puritan forefathers thought it; I’ve a suspicion that [MASK] thinks it right now. Very certainly hfe thinks it would be immoral to keep business men from making money, or to take away what they have made.”

""	Lanny	Now she was seized by a sort of light convulsion, and sputum began to drip from her lips. [MASK] ran and got a towel and wiped it away; he was frightened for a while, but gradually the moaning died, and after a space the woman opened her eyes.

""	Irma	Now there were new ones added, and it was a delicate problem, because it was [MASK]’s money and she was entitled to have a say. What she said was that servants oughtn’t to be permitted to bother their employers with the hard-luck stories of their relatives.

""	Johannes	What can any of us do, except to pray that it will not break out in the street where we live?” “But they threaten it wholesale, [MASK]!” “It is a means of getting power in a world where people are distracted and must have some one to blame.

Gerty	Lanny	He seemed to [MASK] absurdly naive; he actually didn’t know about the “bearing-down pains,” that they were according to the arrangements of la nature, and that women didn’t very often die of them.

""	Hansi	She was twenty-two and had been married four years, but had put off having children because of her determination to play accompaniments for [MASK] in exactly the way he wanted them. Very touching to see how she watched every step he took, and managed him exactly as her mother at home managed a household.

Molly	Marceline	The parents made jokes about it, in the free and easy modern manner, and the children had taken up the practice. “I’ll never marry you if you don’t learn to dance better,” [MASK] would announce.

Mouth	Lanny	There was a mouth with lips busily sucking on nothing, and a pair of large eyes which didn’t move; however, the nurse at [MASK]’s side assured him that they had been tested with a light, and they worked.

Thelonius Monk	Hansi	ii [MASK] stood waiting, with his instrument in the crook of his arm and his bow at his side; the introduction is elaborate, and not even by a movement of his eyes would he distract anyone’s attention from the sounds.

Ponyboy	Lanny	“This might mean a great deal to me, [MASK]. If I thought that I was in contact with my wife, and that I had some chance of seeing her again, it would give me more happiness than anything I can think of.”

""	Goethe	If he gets results, he’ll be sure you told the woman in advance.” “Well,” said the young idealist, “he’ll be punishing his own sins. [MASK] has a saying that all guilt avenges itself upon earth.”

Ponyboy	Lanny	These two friends of his boyhood told him much about themselves, and held high converse with each other in the limbo where they dwelt; just so had [MASK] imagined them after their death, and it confirmed his idea that he was getting an ingenious reconstruction of the contents of his own mind.

Ponyboy	Lanny	[MASK] thought: “Somebody ought to lead them!” He wanted to say: “My God, it may be settled this very night. Your republic will be dead! Let’s go now, and call the workers out!”

Ponyboy	Lanny	This was true enough to trouble [MASK]’s mind continually. He watched his own influence upon his proletarian friends and wondered, was he really doing them good? Or were the preachers of class struggle right, and the social chasm too wide for any bridge-builder?

""	Irma	[MASK]’s great forte in social life was serenity, and somehow this wasn’t the place to show it off. She commented on this to her husband, who said: “You must understand that most of these people are having a hard time keeping alive.

