invisible	Meantime	[MASK], however, unhoused, I felt at once exposed and invisible. How shall I describe it, this sense of myself as something without weight, without moorings, a floating phantom? Other people seemed to have a density, a thereness, which I lacked.

Ponyboy	Charlie	In the hot, hazy dusk the streets seemed wider, flattened, somehow, and the cars scudded along, sleek as seals in the sodium glare. I got back late to [MASK]’s house, footsore, hot and dishevelled, my hat awry, but filled with a mysterious sense of achievement.

""	Anna	I climbed a zigzag of damp steps to the door, looking about me with an expression of bland interest, trying to appear blameless, as I always seem to do when I am on unfamiliar territory. [MASK] wore shorts, and her hair was loose.

Ponyboy	Daphne	When such a thing does happen it is awful, just awful, and afterwards the one that it happened to is an object of sympathy and awe amongst us, as if he had suffered a bereavement. No fear of [MASK] making a scene.

""	Max	I watched as she was driven away, sitting up very straight in the back of one of the black limousines, a ravaged Ncfcrtiti. [MASK] and his pals went upstairs again, and caroused until the dawn was breaking.

Ponyboy	Charlie	[MASK] too was sleepless, I would hear at all hours his creaking step on the stair, the rattle of the teapot in the kitchen, the laborious, spasmodic tinkle as he emptied his old man’s bladder in the bathroom. We saw little of each other.

Ponyboy	Madge	The rain teemed, big drops dancing on the road and making the surface of the water in the harbour seethe. I heard the front door open and bang shut, and [MASK] and the girl appeared below me and scampered away up the street with their coats over their heads.

Ponyboy	Bunter	But I insist, your honour, gentle handymen of the jury, I insist it was an innocent desire, a wish, an ache, on the part of the deprived child inside me — not [MASK], not him, but the true, lost ghost of my boyhood — to possess this marvellous toy.

""	Anna	— but it was impossible. He talked about the bombing. Five dead - or was it six by now? - from a mere two pounds of explosive! He sighed and shook his head. He seemed more impressed than shocked. [MASK] hardly spoke.

""	Charlie	No, I shouted, no, he’s not here! and threw down the receiver. Almost at once the thing began to shrill again. Wait, wait, don’t hang up, the voice said, this is [MASK]. I laughed, of course.

""	Charlie	Simple as that. For a moment we were silent. And will that work, I said, will that save him? He frowned in puzzlement, and at once I saw I had been wrong, that [MASK] and his embarrassment were not the subject here.

Inspector	Haslet	All that happened, however, was that I grew bored — I could not take them seriously - and got muddled, and began to contradict myself. After a while they too seemed to grow discouraged, and eventually left. Then my chum Inspector [MASK] came sidling in with his shy smile and averted glance.

Ponyboy	Frederick	But calm, [MASK], calm. Forgive me this outburst, your honour. It is just that I do not believe such moments mean anything - or any other moments, for that matter. They have significance, apparently. They may even have value of some sort.

""	Hogg	There was a silence. He was still considering the comer of the ceiling. He might not have been listening to me at all. Jesus, [MASK] said quietly, with no particular emphasis, and the guard behind the desk cleared his throat.

""	Branch	[MASK], he said. He sat down, looked at the floor, drummed his fingers on the table. Listen, I said, I’m worried, my wife, I - He wasn’t listening, wasn’t interested. He brought up the matter of my confession.

Ponyboy	Haslet	Everything swam. [MASK] was behind me, I knew his step by now. In the street a little crowd had gathered. How did they know who I was, which court I would be in, the time at which I would appear?

""	Madge	Across the road, at the harbour wall, a man in a raincoat stood with his hands clasped behind his back, gazing out to sea. I could hear voices downstairs. [MASK] was in the kitchen doing last night’s washing-up. She gave me a peculiar glance.

""	Haslet	I tried not to cough. Tell me, I said to [MASK], how did you find me? He shrugged. He had the air of a schoolboy who has scored an embarrassingly high mark in his exams. The girl in the paper shop, he said.

Ponyboy	Barker	[MASK] today wore a blue suit which had been cut in great broad swathes, as if it were intended not for wearing, but to house a collection of things, boxes, perhaps. He was redfaced and in a sweat already.

""	Charlie	(How could I have imagined they would care a fig for [MASK], or his reputation?) I would do all I could for him, that went without saying, though it seemed to me a bit late now.

Gerty	Charles	I motioned to the chair opposite me and he sat down gingerly. I had started on the cold remains of last night’s boiled potatoes. I was ravenous, I could not get enough to eat. [MASK], I said, you look terrible. He did.

""	Bunter	For he was let slip once, was [MASK], just once, and look what happened.) I hope I do not give the impression that I disliked my father. We did not converse much, but we were perfectly companionable, in the way of fathers and sons.

Gerty	Maolseachlainn	He smiles carefully, unsure that it is a joke. I divert him with tales of prison life, fleshing them out with impersonations - I do our governor here very convincingly. When [MASK] laughs there is no sound, only a slow heaving of the shoulders and a stretched, shiny grin.

""	Anna	Her eyes were closed, and she was smiling with her eyebrows raised, as if she were listening to a distant, dreamy, and slightly funny melody. I heard a sound, and looked over my shoulder. [MASK] was standing in the doorway.

Ponyboy	Charlie	The night was made of glass. I was very drunk. [MASK] helped me along. He was worrying about his briefcase, and clutched it tightly under his arm. Every few yards I had to stop and tell him how good he was.

""	Daphne	But what do I know, I ask you? It was one of the mad widow’s catchphrases. Suddenly everything was sad and grey and waste. [MASK] put her face against my shoulder and began to weep silently. I will always remember those children’s voices.

Ponyboy	Madge	I laughed to sec them go, the child leaping the puddles and [MASK] wallowing in her wake. Then I spotted the car, parked a little way up the road, on the other side, with two dim, large, motionless figures seated in the front, their faces blurred behind the streaming windscreen.

""	Cunningham	I told him about [MASK]’s marvellous document. I must have grown excited in the telling, for his brow darkened, and he closed his eyes behind his halfglasses as if in pain and held up a hand to silence me.

""	Hogg	He had been eating chips, I could smell them on his breath. I peered in bafflement at the ill-typed page. That’s your confession, [MASK] said. Feel like signing it? The lag next door cackled grimly. What are you talking about?

""	Melmoth	A rusty tin sign nailed to the wall above his head proclaimed: [MASK]’s ar Hire. The boy paused and looked at me blankly. He had stopped whistling, but kept his lips puckered. Car? I said, pointing to the sign, for hire, yes?

""	Freddie	Relieved, he gave a breathy laugh and glanced around the bar. That I did remember, that glance, as if he had just discovered his flies were open and was looking to see if anyone had noticed. [MASK]! he said. Well well!

Gerty	Flynn	There is something lewd about them which repels me. I have no doubt the prison shrink could explain what such an aversion signifies — and I’ve no doubt, too, that in my case he would be wrong. [MASK]’s was a particularly offensive specimen.

""	Anna	She had wandered unchallenged into the casualty ward. There were bodies lying everywhere. She walked among the dead and dying, feeling like a survivor herself. Good God, [MASK], I said. She gave a tense little laugh.

""	Behrens	And is it not further the case that I had reason already to feel resentment against the man [MASK], who had attempted to cuckold my father in -But hold on there, old man, I said: that last bit only came to light later on.

""	Patch	I stepped into the hall and for an instant it was as if I had stepped soundlessly through the membrane of time itself. I faltered, tottering inwardly. Hatstand with broken umbrella, that floor tile, still loose. Get out, [MASK], damn you!

Ponyboy	Flynn	What an experience, she said — luckily [MASK] keeps a flask of something in the glove compartment. She had taken a few good swigs, and was beginning to regret it now. We went into the house. The uniformed doorman was nowhere to be seen.

""	Freddie	I’m down the road, he said, just down the road. I was still laughing. Then there was a silence. The guards are here, [MASK], he said, they want to speak to you, there’s been some sort of misunderstanding.

Gerty	Footballer	I noticed again that brief grimace of pain. Bad knee. [MASK]. Sunday afternoons, the shouts muffled in grey air, the flat thud of leather on leather. Now what, I said, what happens now? I did not want him to leave me yet.

""	Wally	They were draped about with ropes and chains and what looked like cartridge belts, and sported gold studs in their nostrils. I had never seen such creatures, I thought they must be members of some fantastic sect. I fled before them, and dived into [MASK]’s pub.

Ponyboy	Whitewater	We dined at a rickety table in the bay of a tall window overlooking the garden. The cutlery was cheap, the plates mismatched. It was something I remembered about [MASK], the makeshift way that life was lived in odd comers, at the edge of things.

""	Charlie	In fact, what I was imagining was [MASK] in his poky gallery, bowing and scraping and wringing his hands in front of some fur-coated bitch reeking of face-powder and perspiration, whose hubby had given her the money to bag a bauble for her birthday.

Ponyboy	Daphne	I do not know that I loved [MASK] in the manner that the world understands by that word, but I do know that I loved her ways. Will it seem strange, cold, perhaps even inhuman, if I say that I was only interested really in what she was on the surface?

Gerty	Daphne	Outside on the lawn the last of the day’s sunlight thickened briefly, then faded. My mother was asking after [MASK] and the child. At the thought of them something like a great sob, lugubrious, faintly comical, ballooned under my breastbone.

""	Anna	Her lips were parted, and she frowned a little, gazing at [MASK]’s bared flesh, lost in a sort of vague amazement. I could feel her heartbeat, and my own. We might have been attending at a ritual disrobing.

Gerty	Euphorion	But I am not [MASK]. I am not even his father. The question is wrong, that’s the trouble. It assumes that actions arc determined by volition, deliberate thought, a careful weighing-up of facts, all that puppet-show twitching which passes for consciousness.

""	Maolseachlainn	-his-name would be too much of a gentleman not to let her go. It was noon when [MASK] arrived, though he had the rumpled air of having just got out of bed. He always looks like that, it is another of his endearing characteristics.

""	Freddie	He kept his eyes on my plate, the mess of spuds there. Something had happened to the silence around us. I realised that the rain had stopped. God almighty, [MASK], he said softly, what have you done? He seemed more bemused than shocked.

""	Charlie	He would take care of me. I gulped my tea and gloomed at my untouched fry congealing on its plate. A car-horn tooted outside, and [MASK] with an exclamation whipped off his apron and hurried out of the kitchen. I listened to him blundering about the house.

""	Smyth	I had paid a deposit of five pounds, and signed a document in the name of [MASK] (I thought the y a fiendishly clever touch). The woman had not even asked to see a driving licence. As I say, this is a wonderful country.

""	Charlie	[MASK] looked up at the window where I stood, and the driver followed his glance. I saw myself as they would see me, a blurred face floating behind the glass, blear-eyed, unshaven, the very picture of a fugitive.

Ponyboy	Haslet	No one laughed, and [MASK] pretended he had not heard. I thought it was awfully witty, of course. I was still in that mood of mad elation, I cannot explain it. I seemed not to walk but bound along, brimful of tigerish energy.

Gerty	Anna	Her hand, so to speak, had already been granted me. We were married one misty, hot afternoon in August. The ceremony was quick and squalid. I had a headache all through it. [MASK] and a colleague of mine from the university acted as witnesses.

Watteau	Fragonard	There was a [MASK], too, and a Watteau. And this was only the hallway. What was going on, what had happened, that it was all left unattended like this? I heard the taximan outside sounding his horn, a tentative, apologetic little toot.

Ponyboy	Anna	Oh dark, dark. 1 expected to be asked to stay the night, but when we had drunk our coffee [MASK] excused herself, and came back in a minute and said she had phoned for a taxi. I was offended.

Carrion	Frederick	Imagine what is going on inside, the purple pump shuddering and squelching, lungs fluttering, and, down in the dark, the glue factory at its ceaseless work. Animate carrion, slick with gleet, not ripe enough yet for the worms. Ach, I should -Calm, [MASK].

Ponyboy	Shocked	I put my hand on its flank to push it away, and was startled by the solidity, the actuality of the animal, the coarse dry coat, the dense unyielding flesh beneath, the blood warmth. [MASK], I took my hand away quickly and stepped back.

""	Anna	I sat down gingerly on one of the Louis Quinze chairs while [MASK] opened the carved and curlicued sideboard and poured out two whopping measures of gin. There was no ice, and the tonic was flat, but I didn’t care, I needed a drink.

""	Charlie	I sat down at the table and rested my forehead in my hands. My skin felt grainy, as if the surface layer had crumpled to a sort of clinging dust. [MASK]’s breakfast things were still on the table, and there was spilled cigarette ash and a saucer of crushed butts.

Ponyboy	Van	She explained it all to me, repeating what the doctor told her, but I was only half-listening. A sort of weariness had come over me, a sort of lethargy. [MASK] is his name, have I mentioned that?

Ponyboy	Maolscachlainn	I suppose 1 should not be surprised, but I am. I was not a good son, but I was the only one she had. [MASK] was watching me with compassion. I’m sorry, he said. I smiled and shrugged, though it was not easy.

Ponyboy	Behrens	He lifted a hand, as if he were about to speak again, but let it fall slowly. The lights of a car swept the window and a horn tooted. [MASK] did not get up. So good to see you, he murmured, giving me his left hand.

""	Charlie	[MASK] frowned. Is that necessary, Inspector? he said. It was such a grand old line, and so splendidly delivered, with just the right degree of solemn hauteur, that for a second I thought it might elicit a small round of applause.

""	Joanne	It is a kind of defence, this creeping absent-mindedness, this torpor, which allows us to drop off instantly, anywhere, at any time, into brief, numb stretches of sleep. [MASK]. She came to see me, brought me my bag.

""	Hogg	I was suddenly, profoundly bored. Listen, [MASK] said, tell us, why did you do it? I stared at him, startled, and at a loss. It was the one thing I had never asked myself, not with such simple, unavoidable force.

""	Charlie	They’re all upstairs, she said, dismissing me, and turned back to her steaming saucepans. There were five of them, or six, counting [MASK], though at first it seemed to me there must be twice that number.

Gerty	Charlie	Black socks, of course — silk again: [MASK] is not one to stint himself - and a pair of dark trousers, baggy but well cut, of a style which was antique enough to have come back into fashion.

Ponyboy	Daphne	An old square where [MASK] and I lived for a while had been razed and made into a vast, cindered car-park. I saw a church for sale - a church, for sale! Oh, something dreadful had happened. The very air itself seemed damaged.

Mother	Lautrec	My mother arrived in the kitchen barefoot. The sight of her bunions and her big yellow toenails annoyed me. She had wrapped herself in an impossible, shot-silk tea-gown. She had the florid look of one of [MASK]’s ruined doxies.

""	Jenny	Only her marvellous, flame-coloured hair proclaimed her a woman. [MASK]! I said, and she blushed. I took her hands in mine. I was absurdly pleased to see her. 1 did not know then that she would soon prove my usurper.

Mafioso	Wally	It was as if he were at last filling out exactly his allotted space. When I knew him he had been a smalltime dealer in pictures and antiques. Now he had presence, it was almost an air of imperium, all the more marked amid the gaudy trappings of [MASK]’s bar.

Gerty	Charlie	Somewhere, I knew, in dayrooms and in smoke-filled, shabby offices, faceless men were even now painstakingly assembling the evidence against me. I thought about them at night, as I lay in [MASK]’s mother’s big lumpy bed.

""	Freddie	He looked at me hard for a long moment. Come on, [MASK], he said, why did you kill her? I stared back at him. I did not like his contemptuously familiar tone -Freddie, indeed! - but decided to let it go.

Ponyboy	Charles	All the same, it is possible that my memory has conflated two separate occasions. It is possible. What more can I say? I hope, [MASK], this concession will soothe, even if only a little, your sense of injury.

""	Anna	The children were still at play. There’s a school, [MASK] murmured, up the hill. She laughed quietly and said. But what do I know, I ask you? It was one of the mad widow’s catchphrases. Suddenly everything was sad and grey and waste.

Ponyboy	Charlie	[MASK], mumbling apologetically, had put a shaky old hand under my elbow and was gently but firmly steering me backwards out of the room. The fear I had felt earlier had turned into annoyance. I felt like giving him a clout, and putting a dent in that ridiculous praetorian helmet of hair.

""	Randolph	Since I had seemed, with [MASK], to have stumbled into a supporting feature, 1 had expected it would be played by a comic cast of ruffians, scarified fellows with low foreheads and little thin moustaches who would stand about me in a circle with their hands in their pockets, smiling horribly and chewing toothpicks.

""	Charlie	She gave me a peculiar glance. I was wearing [MASK]’s dressing-gown. How is it, I wonder, that I did not catch it then, that new, speculative note in her voice, which should have alerted me?

""	Wally	Tonight it tinkled in my mouth like secret laughter. I looked about me. No, [MASK]’s was not changed, not changed at all. This was my place: the murmurous gloom, the mirrors, the bottles ranged behind the bar, each one with its bead of ruby light.

Gerty	Anna	This is one of the things about [MASK], she belongs exactly wherever she happens to be. I stood in the street for a moment watching her — admiring her, I suppose. The gallery was a large high white room with a glass front.

""	Charlie	Through the doorway at the end of the hall I watched [MASK] pottering about in the kitchen, rattling the pots and pans and pretending he was not trying to hear what I was saying. I sighed, and the sigh turned into a thin little moan.

""	Joanne	But I knew there would be nothing. I stood on the first-floor landing, cursing under my breath. There were voices nearby. I flung open a bedroom door. My mother and [MASK] were sitting up side by side in the girl’s big bed.

Gerty	Tinker	I gave her one of my special, slow smiles, and saw myself through her eyes, a tall, tanned hunk in a linen suit, leaning over her on a summer lawn and murmuring dark words. [MASK]! she yelped, get off!

Ponyboy	Mendacity	[MASK] always makes my voice sound curiously dull, a flat blaring at the back of the throat. And why resurrect now an ancient, unimportant lie? Was I just keeping my hand in, getting a bit of practice for the big tourney that lay ahead?

""	Charles	My presence was interfering with his evening rituals. He put away the whiskey bottle without offering me a refill. We traipsed back to the kitchen, where [MASK] donned his apron and rooted about in cupboards and on murky shelves for the makings of a stew.

Rembrandt	Daphne	I saw this danger, and determined to avoid it. I would work, I would study. The theme was there, ready-made. I had [MASK] bring me big thick books on Dutch painting, not only the history but the techniques, the secrets of the masters.

Ponyboy	Daphne	Why did she seem to me so much older now than us, world-weary, a little used, an adult joining tolerantly in a children’s not quite permissible game? [MASK] hardly breathed, her fingers steadily tightening on my hip.

Ponyboy	Charlie	Of the three of us he seemed the most surprised. I could not help admiring the deft way he had kicked in the back door. It hung quivering on its hinges, the broken latch lolling like a hound’s tongue. [MASK] stood up.

""	Charlie	Yesterday, the last day of the old world. Wait, [MASK] said. I’ll get a taxi. He went off, and I knelt there, rocking back and forth and crooning softly, as if I were a child I was holding in my arms.

""	Madge	What an actor the world has lost in me! Now what shall I do? I went upstairs to the drawing-room. No, I went into the kitchen. [MASK]: wig, false teeth, white apron, I have done all that. Out again.

""	Anna	She had taken a few good swigs, and was beginning to regret it now. We went into the house. The uniformed doorman was nowhere to be seen. I told [MASK] how he had gone off and left me to wander at will about the place.

Ponyboy	Charlie	I shaved, glaring at myself in the fish-eye mirror, then I put on [MASK]’s clothes again, and broke into his desk and took his cash and his wallet of credit cards, and went down the stairs three at a time and stormed out into the world.

Abigail	Charlie	A big child. I will not, I will not weep. If I start now I’ll never stop. In the afternoon I broke into [MASK]’s desk again, and took some cash and ventured out to the newsagent’s on the harbour.

""	Joanne	There were few mourners: an aunt or two, and an old man who had worked years ago for my father in the stables. The girl [MASK] was there, of course, red-eyed, her poor face blotched and swollen, dressed in a lumpy pullover and a crooked skirt.

""	Daphne	They were saying goodbye. Of course. It’s just occurred to me. They were not finding each other, but parting. Hence the sadness and the sense of waste, hence [MASK]’s bitter tears. It was nothing to do with me, at all.

Sibyl	Tommy	When I turned she lifted her sibyl’s fearsome head and looked at me. Help me, she whispered. Help me. A bubble of blood came out of her mouth and burst. [MASK]! she said, or a word like that, and then: Love.

Dived	Wally	Dived is the word. I had expected it to be changed, like everything else. I was fond of [MASK]’s. I used to drink there when I was a student, and later on, too, when I worked for the government.

""	Wally	I have nothing against those who are, except that I despise them, of course, and find disgusting the thought of the things they get up to, whatever those things may be. But their presence lent a blowsy gaiety to the atmosphere in [MASK]’s and a slight edge of threat.

Ponyboy	Charlie	I seemed to move as if under a magic spell, I do not know how it worked, but for a while, for an hour or two, posing as [MASK]’s factotum, I was released from myself and the terrors that had been pursuing me relentlessly for days.

Ponyboy	Freddie	You have put on weight, [MASK], she said, you’ve got fat. Then she reached out and - this is true, I swear it — and took hold of a piece of my stomach and rolled it playfully between a finger and thumb.

""	Haslet	What did they expect, a rescue party? I noticed that they all wore running shoes, except [MASK], the good country boy, in his stout brown brogues. One of his men bumped into him. Too many cops spoil the capture, I said brightly.

