""	Doro	"No," [MASK] said. "I told her the truth. I would not know where to begin—or even whether the boy is still alive." "She is one of my descendants." "As you said, she will be well treated.

Gerty	Anyanwu	He managed to touch her hand. "You have lost other husbands," he said. She began to cry. "[MASK], I'm old. My life has been long and full—by ordinary standards, at least." His face twisted with pain.

Ponyboy	Isaac	Surely it was time for them to do whatever they could. She could distinguish [MASK] easily from the others. He stood apart, his arms raised, his face turned down and to one side to escape some of the wind and rain, his clothing and yellow hair whipping about.

""	Doro	How did you become this [MASK]'s slave?" "I am not his slave." "I cannot see how any man would hold you in slavery. What are you?" "His wife." The boy stared speechless at her long breasts.

""	Anyanwu	"I didn't know how well until this moment. It has been so long since there were no voices, nothing pulling at me or hurting me." Relief made her forget her fear. She met [MASK]'s eyes, her own eyes full of the wonder of her newfound peace.

Ponyboy	Isaac	It never had. He would see her. He stopped her cross-country plans by putting her and her people on one of his own clippers and returning to her one of the best of her descendants by [MASK] to keep her safe from storms.

""	Nweke	He was striving to create a more stable, controlled [MASK], and he had had some success—people who could perceive and to some degree control the inner workings not only of their own bodies, but the bodies of others. But their abilities were not dependable.

Ponyboy	Isaac	He was not accustomed to people resisting him, not accustomed to their hating him. The woman was a puzzle he had not yet solved—which was why now, after she had given him eight children, given [MASK] five children, she was still alive.

""	Susan	Then it was loneliness and grief pressing on her, weighing her down then. Now... what was it now, really? "Is it [MASK]?" he asked. "I didn't think you had gotten that close to her." "I hadn't.

Gerty	Okoye	"It is not their custom to eat men. And if it were, our master would not permit us to be eaten. He is a powerful man." [MASK] shuddered. "He is not a man."

""	Isaac	Take one of the children's beds. It will be over when you wake." [MASK] shook his head wearily. "How could I sleep not knowing?" "All right, then, don't sleep, but at least lie down. You look terrible.

Gerty	Isaac	Even they've been here long enough to know better than to let a child suffer that way with her only a few doors away." [MASK] paused. "They're afraid of her blackness and her power. They think she's a witch, and the mold-medicine she made some poison."

""	Doro	Other towns have done that. Then at night when they see shadows and branches blowing in the wind they can tell each other they have seen my spirit." "A shrine with spirits will frighten them less than the living woman, I think," [MASK] said.

""	Isaac	And now, you send me away to another man. You give me nothing at all." "You will bear my children as well as [MASK]'s." She cried out as though with pain, and climbed out of his bed. "

""	Doro	[MASK] nodded. Power came the way a child came—with agony. People in transition were open to every thought, every emotion, every pleasure, every pain from the minds of others. Their heads were filled with a continuous screaming jumble of mental "noise.

Gerty	Doro	[MASK] kept making her talk, speaking to her of trivial things. "Do you miss the yams? There are none quite like yours here." "It does not matter." Her voice was like the young girl's—no more than a moving of the lips.

Ponyboy	Isaac	She listened closely as [MASK] described the pain he felt—the fearful tightening, the squeezing within his chest, the dizziness, the too-rapid beating of his heart, the way the pain spread from his chest to his left shoulder and arm.

""	Isaac	[MASK] looked at him, understood the unspoken question. "I assume you mean to keep the parents alive for a while." "Yes." "Then you'd better find another home for the child—and for every other child they have.

""	Isaac	"Why bring it up now?" "Answer." "All right." [MASK] shrugged. "I said I knew you—and her—so I wasn't surprised at what you'd done. You're both stubborn, vengeful people at times.

""	Isaac	"That's a long time, even for you and him." She turned away. Another time she might have been amused to hear [MASK] counseling patience. He was not a patient young man. But now, for her sake, he was desperate.

Gerty	Anyanwu	I lay down on her bed to see, and 1 saw her go out just as easy..." [MASK] got up and left the table. She had gone away to find some respite from loved ones who died and died, and others whose rapid aging reminded her that they too were temporary.

""	Doro	My son asked for a chance to talk to you if you refused to obey. Wait here." "What can he say to me that you have not said?" she demanded harshly. [MASK] paused at the door to give her a look of contempt.

""	Doro	She was tempted to ask [MASK] to help, but one look at his face changed her mind. He would not help. He would curse her. She shuddered. She had not seen him make a kill since their trip from her homeland.

""	Doro	He had had a long sparse beard when [MASK] took her to him, and long black hair clotted together with the grease and dirt of years of neglect. His clothing might have stood alone, starched as it was with layers of dirt and sweat, but it was too ragged to stand.

""	Anyanwu	Inbreeding? Was his father, perhaps, one of [MASK]'s older sons? "What do you know about me?" he asked the boy. "That you're no more what you appear to be than she is." The boy shrugged. "

""	Anyanwu	He returned it to her whole. And she cmshed it in one hand. He had to have the woman. She was wild seed of the best kind. She would strengthen any line he bred her into, strengthen it immeasurably. "Come with me, [MASK].

Gerty	Isaac	She kissed [MASK]. She had given him many such kisses as he grew old. They were of more than love. Within her body, she synthe- sized medicine for him. She had studied him very carefully, had aged herself, her own organs to study the effects of age.

Ponyboy	Thomas	She had not intended to whisper. "Use your hands!" he said. She found a shovel in the cabin, and an adz that she could swing to break up the earth—probably the same tool [MASK] had used to dress the timbers of his cabin.

""	Doro	She wanted to shake him. She wanted to use her strength, make him tell her what he meant to do. "Yes," she whispered. "How did you like it—being a man, having a wife?" "[MASK]... !"

""	Doro	He smiled at her, showing bad teeth, but good humor. Apparently he forgave her. "He says you are as strong as a man," [MASK] told her. She smiled. "I can be as strong as many men, but he need not know that."

""	Okoye	[MASK] looked away, rubbed his breast where the branding iron had gouged. "I will obey," he whispered. He was silent for a moment, then spoke again wearily. "1 wish to marry. But must the white man make the ceremony?"

""	Doro	"I could see your body changing inside. Everything changing..." He shook his head uncomprehending, then asked: "Could you turn white?" The question startled her. Was he really so concerned about her color? Usually [MASK]'s people were not.

Ponyboy	Anyanwu	Waves swept high over the deck and there were moments when [MASK] found even her great strength strained, moments when it would have been so easy to let the half-drowned crewman go. But she had not saved the man's life only to throw it away.

""	Isaac	For an instant, she wondered herself what such a switch might be like. She knew she could become an adequate man, but could this strange being ever be truly womanly? What if...? No! "I will show [MASK] the clothing," she said coldly.

Gerty	Anyanwu	She cannot use it, but it is there. I can feel it in her sometimes—especially in those times when she is hottest after him." [MASK] had ignored this, preferring to believe that eventually her son would make a suitable marriage.

""	Nweke	"I think they will surprise you. I've done a great deal of work with them since [MASK]. 1 think you won't be wanting to care for them or their children for long." "Why? What new thing is wrong with them?"

""	Doro	"[MASK] said he would find an English name for me, but I did not want one. Now he makes English of my name." The white woman shook her head and laughed. "You're more fortunate than you know.

He	Isaac	He did not want to lose [MASK] any sooner than he had to either. He shook his head, spoke to divert himself from the thought of his son's dying. "I was down in the city on business," he said.

She	Doro	"Who knows what useful adults they might have grown into? But still, sometimes a child must be sacrificed." She thought of her sons and their children, and knew positively that she had been right to get [MASK] away from them.

""	Doro	I almost hit you when you said it—and I am very strong." "I don't doubt it." "I care what [MASK] does to me. He knows I care. I tell him." "People don't, normally."

""	Anyanwu	" She went through the house and out toward the kitchen. She was a good, steady, sensible friend. She did more than sewing for her keep. [MASK] would have kept her if she had done nothing at all. But she was so old.

Ponyboy	Anyanwu	He wondered obscurely whether the red earth was the same clay he had seen in Indian dwellings in southwestern parts of the North American continent. But more immediately, he wondered whether there were couches in [MASK]'s house, and food and water.

Duran	Helen	[MASK] was her youngest daughter—eleven years old. "He what!" "1 caught them in the Duran cabin. He was tearing her clothes off." "Is she all right?" "Yes. She's in her room."

""	Isaac	She laughed like a child and stood up to meet him, her arm flowing easily back to its human shape. "Tomorrow," she said, "you will tell [MASK] how to help me, and I will swim with the fish! I will be a fish!

The	Doro	As it was, she understood nothing. She felt exposed, strangely helpless among people so alien. She walked closely behind [MASK]. He led her to a large compound and into that compound as though it belonged to him. A tall, lean young man confronted him at once.

""	Stephen	"Lying in front of the Duran cabin." She went out, not knowing whether she was going to give the young man another beating or help him if [MASK] had hurt him seriously. But what kind of animal was he to try to rape a child?

""	Isaac	By the time [MASK] knocked on the door, her face was wet with tears she did not remember shedding. She made him wait until she had wrapped a cloth around herself and dried her face. Then with leaden, hopeless weariness, she opened the door and let the boy in.

""	Isaac	They have special abilities that could be useful." He would tell her nothing more—would not speak of these newly acknowledged sons except in warning. "Leave them alone," he said. "[MASK] is the best of them, safe and stable.

Ponyboy	Anyanwu	[MASK] watched the cheering for a moment—knew it to be cheering now—then stumbled below, and back to her cabin. There, she found water everywhere. It sloshed on the floor and the bed was sodden.

Thou	Anyanwu	"I see to it that they leam some of the less popular ones," [MASK] answered. "There is another: Thou shalt not deliver unto his master the servant which is escaped from his master unto thee.'

Gerty	Anyanwu	How stupid to grieve over an old woman who had lived what, for her kind, was a long life. [MASK] sat up and shook her head. She had been watching friends and relatives grow old and die for as long as she could remember.

Gerty	Doro	For a moment, [MASK] wondered whether he was demented—as warped of mind as he was of body. But the eyes were intelligent—even mocking now. It seemed that the boy was perfectly intelligent, and laughing at him.

Healer	Thomas	"I never thought you could do this so well," he said to her. "I would have brought you my sick ones before." "1 am a healer," she said. His smile terrified her for [MASK]' sake.

Alien	Doro	There were two chairs and several mats—rugs—of heavy, colorful cloth. It was all as alien as [MASK] himself. It gave her a feeling of hopelessness—as though she had come to this strange place only to die.

""	Anyanwu	They all survived." "They are my people's children! Perhaps some of them and their descendants should come with us after all." [MASK] stopped so suddenly that he almost ran into her. "You will not trouble my children," she said quietly.

Ponyboy	Doro	[MASK] felt hungry too, but could not bring himself to touch food. Especially, not those cakes. He realized that it was not food he hungered for. He had only recently taken the body he was wearing.

Gerty	Doro	"[MASK], we will not do it!" "All right," he said agreeably. "It was only a suggestion. You might enjoy it." "No!" He shrugged. "It would be a vile thing," she whispered.

""	Joseph	"Will you take them away if they don't fit, can't fit, like [MASK]?" "Yes," he repeated. "Their seed is too valuable to be wasted." He thought of nothing else. Nothing!

The	Anyanwu	There were men carrying hoes and machetes. It was as [MASK] had said. They were in the middle of her town, surrounded by villages. No European would have recognized a town, however, since most of the time there were no dwellings in sight.

""	Doro	She says she doesn't like being a widow. * "I... thought she might be helping you a little." "She was helping me 'a little' twenty years ago. How many children have I gotten for you in the past twenty years?" [MASK] said nothing.

Ponyboy	Doro	His body fell almost on top of the boy, but the child jumped out of the way in time. Then he knelt on the ground and took [MASK]'s machete. People were beginning to react as the boy stood up and leaned on the machete.

Gerty	Isaac	She shook her head back and forth against the bed. "1 do not know. He showed an image of me lying with [MASK], then lying with him. He made me see it—almost made me want it." She turned away again.

Maggie	Isaac	He would tell her tonight that she was to marry [MASK]. In telling her, he would have to treat her not as ordinary recalcitrant wild seed, but as one of his daughters— difficult, but worth taking time with.

""	Isaac	It became almost possible to forget that he was not a woman now. He dressed her carefully in the stifling layers of clothing, stepped back to give her a quick critical glance, then commented that [MASK] had a good eye. The clothing fit almost perfectly.

Ponyboy	Anyanwu	I guess you could say I've been building the Boyden house. I have to use what I've got now and then, no matter how [MASK] nags me to slow down. Otherwise, I find myself walking a foot or so off the ground or throwing things.

Ponyboy	Doro	"You're among strangers!" [MASK] told him sharply, and the boy dropped, startled, to the deck. "No one saw me," he said. "But look, speaking of being among strangers..."

Ponyboy	Dora	He had been a farmer, then a merchant—never a magistrate. But even when he was younger, people brought their disagreements to him. He was one of [MASK]'s favorite sons. That made him powerful and influential. Also, he was known for his honesty and fairness.

Submit	Anyanwu	Perhaps you try to keep some decency then. Perhaps he has not made animals of you yet." "Submit to him now, [MASK], and later, you can keep him from ever making animals of us." Submit to him.

""	Anyanwu	[MASK] turned to face him angrily. "You are many times as old as I am. You must have some inborn defect to keep you from getting wisdom to go with your years." "Will you eventually condescend to tell me what wisdom you have gotten?

""	Doro	"Are you pregnant?" he asked. "I wish I were," she whispered. She was beginning to cry. "All right," [MASK] said, "All right, that's all." She got up quickly and left the room.

""	Doro	[MASK] ran a finger across the hard, neatly cut nails. "All ten," he said, "right where they should be. None of it happened to you." "You don't understand." "I've been through transition, girl.

""	Doro	He did not understand anything about me, so I showed him a little of what I have shown you. Only a little. It closed his mouth." "It would," laughed [MASK]. "He is a very old man now.

Ponyboy	Doro	She gripped the rail, eyes on the shore. What was she doing, she wondered. How could she leave her homeland, even for [MASK]? How could she live among these strangers? White skins, yellow hairs—what were they to her?

""	Isaac	"He is to me what [MASK] was to you," she whispered. Would he hear that as what it was—a plea for mercy? He stared at her as though she had said something incomprehensible, as though he was trying to understand.

Martha	Anyanwu	"I must learn." "How do you say your name?" "[MASK]." She said it very slowly, but still the woman asked: "Is that all one name?" "Only one.

""	Margaret	Oh, he knew her—knew how to use her. "Will you do it then? Let them marry and stay here if they fit?" "Yes." She looked down, examining the rug pattern that had held so much of [MASK]'s attention.

""	Doro	She had risked everything to give him a chance to escape—at least a chance—and he had come back. He tried to pull her off [MASK]. "Let him go, I said. He'd go through you and take me two seconds later.

""	Thomas	"He was a good man, but... much like [MASK]. He could see and hear and feel too much." "And he survived a crossing on a slave ship?" "Only part of him survived. He was mad most of the time, but he was docile.

""	Doro	"It is only his youth making him foolish. He is good. He gives me hope for our children." "He is not a child," [MASK] said. "He is twenty-five years old. Think of him as a man."

Gerty	Anyanwu	Fearlessly, the child came to sit on the rug beside her. [MASK] looked up, knowing that her face was smeared with blood and wishing she had cleaned herself before she came downstairs. Cleaned herself and left her daughter in the care of someone more reliable.

Ponyboy	Doro	Some of [MASK]'s best people—too many of them—stopped at this stage. They could pass their potential on to their children if they lived long enough to have any, but they could not benefit from it themselves. They could never control it.

""	Isaac	The yellow-haired [MASK] seemed delighted. When finally, someone called him away, he left her reluctantly. The loneliness returned as soon as he was gone. There were people all around her, but she felt completely alone on this huge vessel at the edge of endless water.

""	Anyanwu	I cannot save it. It's already dead." "No." He closed his eyes, tried to still his trembling. Finally, he gave up, looked over at her. If he could only make her see. "It isn't dead, [MASK].

""	Denice	"You cannot always take everything," she said. "Or just take my life. What is the good of living on and on and having nothing?" There was silence for a moment. "Did they obey [MASK]?" he asked finally. "

Ponyboy	Anyanwu	But that was something to think about in the future. It did not matter. Only what was happening now mattered. Then, suddenly, there was a man in the water. Startled, both [MASK] and her male swam a short distance away, their dance interrupted.

Ponyboy	Doro	None of her brothers or sisters had reached [MASK] miles away with their desperation as their transitions neared. What had he felt about her? Anxiety, worry, more. Some indefinable feeling not only that she was near transition, but that she was on the verge of becoming something he had not known before.

Mister	Doro	They weren't as sensitive, perhaps. Living in towns didn't seem to bother them. But they drank too much and fought and abused or neglected their children and occasionally murdered each other before [MASK] could get around to taking them.

""	Anyanwu	"1 caught them in the Duran cabin. He was tearing her clothes off." "Is she all right?" "Yes. She's in her room." [MASK] stood up. "I'll see her in a little while, then.

""	Doro	She would still refuse to understand that whether he killed out of need, accident, or choice, he had to kill. There was no way for him to avoid it. An ordinary human might be able to starve himself to death, but [MASK] could not.

Ponyboy	Daly	[MASK] was still alive because of that desire. Ten years before, he had confronted what he considered to be just another black savage leading five other less black but equally savage-looking men. All sue men appeared to be young, healthy—fine potential slaves.

Gerty	Doro	"If [MASK] is a spirit," she said, "then he has done you a service. He has killed your enemy for you. Is that reason to fear him?" "You fear him yourself. I have seen it in your eyes."

""	Isaac	[MASK]'s face went red. "I mean you look like a New York lady." His embarrassment told her that he had said something wrong, something insulting. She had thought she was misunderstanding his English. Now she realized she had understood all too well.

Gerty	Mgbada	Then [MASK] died. I am a bad healer sometimes. I am no healer at all sometimes." "No doubt the man lived much longer and better than he would have without you." "He was a young man," she said.

""	Doro	She closed her eyes and slept, not knowing whether [MASK] would lie down beside her or not. It was not until later, when she awoke alone that she realized he had not. Someone was pounding on her door. She shook off sleep easily and got up to open the door.

""	Daly	Well, no doubt the missionaries will reach them eventually and teach them to practice only symbolic cannibalism." [MASK] jumped. He considered himself a pious man in spite of his work. "You shouldn't say such things," he whispered.

Dolphin	Isaac	Until I began to hide. I bore dolphin young—and they were dolphins. Not human at all. They were the young of the dolphin [MASK] caught and fed to us so long ago. My body was a copy of hers down to the smallest living part.

Ponyboy	Anyanwu	The man was bearded and dirty and thin as though wasted by disease—which was likely. This land swallowed white men. The slaver was a poor example of his kind, but [MASK] did not know that. She was having a good look.

Ponyboy	Doro	"[MASK]?" She said the strange word twice more. "Is that a name?" "It is my name. Among my people, it means the east—the direction from which the sun comes." She put one hand to her face.

Ponyboy	Doro	Even now, if he could, [MASK] would have liked to breed her with some of them—let her give birth to superior human children for a change instead of the animal young she must have borne over her years of freedom. But it was too late for that.

Maggie	Anyanwu	Especially, he took women who had already given him what he wanted of them—usually several children. They served him and never thought they might be his next victims. Someone else. Not them. More than once, [MASK] wondered how much time she might have left.

