Stabbing	Langdon	Strangely, the angel was wielding a long sword, the point of which he seemed to be stabbing into the face of the first person in line. "Who knows,” [MASK] called out, “what this angel is doing? ” “Stabbing someone in the head?”

""	Sinksey	This strange ship was actually packed with people, but none were relaxing—they were all working. Working on what? As they continued climbing, [MASK] could hear the ship’s massive engines power up, churning a deep wake as the yacht began moving again.

""	Langdon	Strangely, the only party awaiting their arrival was the driver of a large white van that bore the emblem of a bright red, equalarmed cross. The Red Cross is here? [MASK] looked again, realizing it was the other entity that used the red cross.

Ponyboy	Sienna	Below her, the boat’s twin outboards revved, churning the water and moving the craft away from the dock. [MASK] was suddenly airborne, leaping off the dock over the open water. She landed with a crash on the boat’s fiberglass stern.

""	Langdon	His reaction was part relief that the item had been returned . . . and part sheepishness that he cared so deeply about it. My Mickey Mouse watch. [MASK] immediately fastened the collector’s edition timepiece on his wrist. The feel of the worn leather band against his skin made him feel strangely secure.

Gerty	Langdon	Weathered and wooden, it appeared of little significance, like a storage closet or room for landscaping supplies. [MASK] rushed to the door, clearly hoping he could open it, but the door had no handle—only a brass keyhole—and, apparently, could be opened only from within.

The Rod of [MASK]	Asclepius	But when you called it a caduceus, you made a very common mistake. The caduceus has two snakes on the staff and wings at the top. Your amulet has a single snake and no wings. Your symbol is called—” “The Rod of [MASK].”

""	Sinskey	[MASK] sat bolt upright. "Whoever the hell you are, you’ve been harboring a criminal’ ” “We’ve done nothing illegal, but that’s not—” “The hell you haven’t! ” The man on the line took a long, patient breath, speaking very softly now.

""	Knowlton	“Sir,” [MASK] began, an uneasy edge in his voice. “I hate to bother you with this, but as you may know, we’re tasked with uploading a video to the media tomorrow.” “Yes,” the provost replied.

Mister	Sienna	“With specifics?” “That’s what [MASK] told me, yes.” "We need that letter! Having specifics could save us months in understanding what this thing is and knowing how to handle it.”

Ponyboy	Sienna	but the symbol before him definitely made the list. His reaction was visceral and immediate; he placed the tube on the table and slid back his chair. [MASK] nodded. “Yeah, that was my reaction, too.” The marking on the tube was a simple trilateral icon.

""	Langdon	He steepled his hands and stared out at the coastline, considering the implications. “Do we know the status of the SRS team?” “Yes, sir. Less than two miles away from [MASK]’s position.” The provost needed only a moment to make the decision.

Gerty	Langdon	As [MASK]’s eyes adjusted to the grotto’s dark interior, he surveyed their unusual surroundings, wondering if there was any other exit. He saw nothing promising. The interior of the cavern was adorned with sculpted animals and humans, all in various stages of consumption by the strange oozing walls.

Gerty	Elizabeth	He again tore the papers, stacking them. “I produce a stack of paper that is now four times the thickness of the original, correct? ” His eyes seemed to smolder in the darkness of the room. [MASK] did not appreciate his condescending tone and aggressive posture.

Furious	Sienna	Furious, [MASK] jumped off his couch. “Amitriptyline?!” she challenged. “I want to be happier—not a zombie! ” The psychiatrist, to his great credit, remained very calm in the face of her outburst and offered a second suggestion. "

""	Ernesto	[MASK] was no fool. He knew there was some kind of trouble out there this morning—all the sirens and soldiers—but he had never been one to involve himself in matters that didn’t affect him directly. Pazzo e colui che bada ai fatti altrui.

""	Ernesto	Now, as the pounding grew more intense, [MASK] opened the steel grate, moved through it, and then closed and locked it behind him. “Si?" he shouted above the sounds of pounding as he hurried to the gray door. No reply.

Ponyboy	Langdon	How long until they come after us? As [MASK] returned his eyes to the poem, he fought off a wave of exhaustion. He eyed the final line of verse, and another thought occurred to him. He wondered if it was even worth mentioning.

""	Sienna	Puzzled, [MASK] hurried to the window and peered outside. A black, unmarked van had skidded to a stop in the street below. Out of the van flowed a team of men, all dressed in black uniforms with circular green medallions on their left shoulders.

""	Marta	“You have my word. But I can’t retrieve it unless you let us go. The situation is complicated. You need to let us go, right away.” Despite wanting the priceless mask returned, [MASK] had no intention of letting anyone go.

""	Langdon	The soldier, rather than entering the grotto, suddenly peeled off to the left and disappeared. Where is he going?! He doesn’t know we're here? A few moments later, [MASK] heard pounding—a fist knocking on wood.

""	Sienna	The patio was deserted, more of an employee parking lot than a tourist area. “Where are we going?!” [MASK] finally asked, breathless. “Almost there.” Almost where? The entire patio was enclosed by walls that were at least three stories tall.

""	Sinskey	[MASK] knew that upstairs on the street, hundreds of frightened con-certgoers and musicians were huddling in confusion, many being treated for injuries suffered in the stampede. Others had fled the area entirely. She felt lucky to have escaped with only a bruised knee and a broken amulet.

Ponyboy	Langdon	As far as [MASK] could see, the floor of this underground world was a glassy sheet of water—dark, still, smooth—like black ice on a frozen New England pond. The lagoon that reflects no stars.

Toy	Langdon	As the aircraft departed, [MASK] peered up at it through the trees. “Toy helicopter,” he said, exhaling as he watched the three-foot-long, radio-controlled chopper banking in the distance. It sounded like a giant, angry mosquito.

The Man	Langdon	“More or less.” The man’s demeanor had changed dramatically, seeming far more relaxed. “But I thought—” [MASK] stopped. “Actually . . . I’m not sure what to think anymore.”

Professor	Langdon	“Professor, you do realize this plane has no windows? Until recently, it was used as a military transport.” [MASK] turned, his face ashen. “Yes, I noticed that the moment I stepped aboard. I’m not so good in enclosed spaces."

""	Elizabeth	She waited. Yes? Apparently thinking better pf his impulse, he gave a polite smile and changed the subject. “So why am I here?” [MASK] motioned to a makeshift conference area around a stainless-steel table. “Please, sit.

""	Sienna	“We’re on the verge of new technologies that we can’t yet even imagine.” “And new philosophies as well,” [MASK] added. “The Transhumanist movement is about to explode from the shadows into the mainstream.

""	Vasari	The building’s volatile past ranged from long and vicious debates over [MASK]’s much-despised fresco of The Last Judgment on the dome’s interior ... to the hotly disputed competition to select the architect to finish the dome itself.

Ponyboy	Langdon	At that point our only explanation for your strange behavior was that you had switched sides . . . possibly having been offered large sums of money to locate the contagion for someone else.” [MASK] shook his head. “That’s preposterous! ”

Doge	Langdon	[MASK] had visited the Doge’s Palace many times and knew that it was absolutely massive. A sprawling complex of buildings, the palace housed a grand-scale museum, a veritable labyrinth of institutional chambers, apartments, and courtyards, and a prison network so vast that it was housed in multiple buildings.

""	Knowlton	And it was precisely nine minutes long ... to the second. Feeling uncharacteristically alarmed, he stood and paced his tiny cubicle, wondering again whether he should share the bizarre video with the provost. Just do your job, [MASK] told himself. No questions. No judgment.

""	Sienna	And yet, in this version, the seducers appear . . . way down in the seventh ditch.” [MASK] studied the now-fading image beside her and nodded. “Okay, I see that. The first ditch is now the seventh."

Ponyboy	Langdon	[MASK] paused, momentarily losing his train of thought. He had just noticed something about the cylinder that struck him as odd. Normally, a person could peer through a cylinder seal’s hollow center, as if through a section of empty pipe, but in this case, the shaft was blocked.

Ivory	Sienna	“I thought it was ivory,” [MASK] said. “But it’s bone.” She slid the artifact into the sunlight and pointed to the lines on it. “Ivory forms in a diamond-shaped cross-hatching with translucent striations; bones form with these parallel striations and darkened pitting.”

SRS	Briider	The warm wind rushed past her, up the stairs toward the open doorway above. Outside, the SRS team had arrived and its members were prepping behind the building in an effort to keep their hazmat gear out of sight while they waited to receive [MASK]’s assessment.

""	Vayentha	[MASK]’s eyes widened as she took in the tunnel-like structure above her. She’d heard of the corridor, but knew very little about it. It leads to the Palazzo Vecchio? “For those rare few with VIP connections,” the guide continued, "they can access the corridor even today.

Ponyboy	Langdon	In addition to shedding a ray of light on his strange predicament, this revelation also meant [MASK] was no longer wondering what terrible thing he might have done . . . for which he had been profusely saying he was very sorry.

Rats	Vayentha	The noise of the falling plank had almost certainly given them away. [MASK]’s eyes bolted upward to the ornate ceiling. “Rats in the attic?” the man with the camcorder joked nervously as the sound reverberated down.

""	Knowlton	The mere act of initiating contact carried certain risks. “Obviously, sir,” [MASK] said, “if you reach out to FS-2080, you’ll need to do so very delicately.” The provost’s eyes flashed with anger as he pulled out his cell phone.

""	Vayentha	From all appearances, it was business as usual here at the Palazzo Vecchio. No police, [MASK] thought. At least not yet. She zipped her jacket high around her neck, making certain that her weapon was concealed, and headed through the entrance.

Ponyboy	Vasari	Eight feet beneath them, the fallen plank had come to rest across the wooden framing that supported the canvas bearing [MASK]’s Apotheosis. The large flashlight, still glowing, was resting on the canvas itself, creating a small indentation, like a stone on a trampoline.

Rabbit	Langdon	[MASK] had seen these statistics before and yet only now was he starting to understand their implications. As a species, humans were like the rabbits that were introduced on certain Pacific islands and allowed to reproduce unchecked to the point that they decimated their ecosystem and finally went extinct.

""	Langdon	“Damn itl ” [MASK]’s eyes now shone with concern, his earlier hopefulness all but erased. “I had hoped—” Without warning, the piercing whine of the drone echoed loudly off the high walls around them.

Ponyboy	Elizabeth	"And speaking of hyenas,” he said, pointing to the new image. “Here is the pack of hyenas currently circling humankind . . . and they are closing in fast.” [MASK] was surprised to see the familiar image before her.

""	Sienna	“I wish I knew what we were looking for. That would help put all of this into perspective.” [MASK] nodded. “Whatever it is, I think we need to find it. At least it would give us leverage.” Her logic was hard to refute.

""	Sienna	"There’s a site just around the corner where Dante enthusiasts gather. I bet someone there has a copy we can borrow.” “It’s probably closed, too,” [MASK] warned. “Almost every place in town moves the Sabbath away from Sunday.”

""	Knowlton	“Sir, the end is actually the most frightening part.” “I’ve seen enough.” The provost looked ill. He paced the cubicle for several moments and then turned suddenly. “We need to make contact with FS-2080.” [MASK] considered the move.

""	Langdon	“And the Vatican feels differently.” “Quite. They have spent enormous amounts of energy and money indoctrinating third-world countries into a belief in the evils of contraception.” “Ah, yes,” [MASK] said with a knowing smile.

Ponyboy	Langdon	She tilted her head and studied the visible section of glass inside the bone. “Tip it again,” she whispered. “Very slowly." [MASK] gently turned the bone upside down. Again, a small object rattled the length of the bone and stopped.

O6serve	Langdon	He's fine, [MASK] told himself, forcing his attention to the verse before him. O you possessed of sturdy intellect, o6serve tfve teaching that is hidden here . . . beneath the veil of verses so obscure.

""	Langdon	She paused. “Except for one problem. He didn’t think we’d live long enough as a species to realize that possibility.” “Due to overpopulation . . .” [MASK] said. She nodded. “The Malthusian catastrophe.

""	Langdon	He kept twisting, feeling as if he were about to open a precious Russian nesting doll, except that he had no idea what might fall out. After five turns, the two halves released. With a deep breath, [MASK] gently pulled them apart.

Gerty	Medusa	Finally, he reached a dead end at a small viewing platform near the base of the cistern’s rightmost wall. There before him was an incredible sight. Rising out of the water was a colossal carved marble block—the head of [MASK]—her hair writhing with snakes.

""	Langdon	he shouted. But she plunged into the sea of humanity and was gone. [MASK] dove in after her, bumping, pushing, craning his neck until he spotted her weaving down the bazaar’s western hallway to his left.

""	Langdon	[MASK] tried to process what he was hearing. “Why haven’t you called in?!” the man demanded, still scratching at his neck and cheeks, which looked red and blistered. “And who the hell is the woman I saw you come in here with?!

Gerty	Langdon	consumed by fire, buried in feces, devouring one another. He could hear the mournful cries of human suffering echoing across the water. The woman moved toward him, holding out her slender hands, as if beckoning for help. “Who are you?!” [MASK] again shouted.

Ponyboy	Langdon	"Got it,” the man replied. “Don’t move. Stay in your room. Someone will be there right away. Room number?” [MASK] made one up. “Thirty-nine.” “Okay. Twenty minutes.”

Ponyboy	Marta	“My favorite view of the room,” [MASK] panted. “You get an entirely different perspective on the murals. I imagine your brother told you about the mysterious message hidden in that one there? ” She pointed.

""	Vayentha	“You were not hired to be a film critic,” the provost admonished. “You were hired to keep promises. Do your job.” On the Ponte Vecchio, [MASK] waited, her sharp eyes scanning the hundreds of faces on the bridge.

""	Sinskey	“Sure, a few summers ago it was posted all over campus. I assumed it was some kind of chemistry conference.” [MASK] chuckled. “No, those were signs for the 2010 ‘Humanity-plus’ Summit—one of the largest Transhumanism gatherings ever.

""	Langdon	“Shortly after death,” [MASK] described, “the deceased is laid out, and his face is coated with olive oil. Then a layer of wet plaster is caked onto the skin, covering everything—mouth, nose, eyelids—from the hairline down to the neck.

Ponyboy	Langdon	“[MASK]’s precise location is now traceable.” The provost was stunned that anyone could be so foolish. This changes everything. He steepled his hands and stared out at the coastline, considering the implications. “Do we know the status of the SRS team?”

""	Zobrist	“It makes no sense,” she said, looking restless. “If we believe [MASK] secretly wrote something on the back of the Dante death mask, and he also went to the trouble to create that little projector to point to the mask . . .

""	Dante	Here, with no way out, they hear the sounds of trickling water running through stones beneath them, and they follow the rivulet through cracks and crevices . . . ultimately finding safety. [MASK] wrote: “A place is there below . . .

""	Briider	Thank you, though.” The provost eyed [MASK] a long moment and then motioned to a table of food and drink being set up on the deck. “Catch your breath. You’re going to need it. You’ll be going back ashore very shortly.”

Ponyboy	Copernicus	There is the silver-haired beauty who dares call me monster! Like the blind clerics who lobbied for the death of [MASK], she scorns me as a demon, terrified that I have glimpsed the Truth. But I am not a prophet. I am your salvation.

""	Langdon	The time stamp on-screen indicated that the footage had been cued to midmorning yesterday—precisely twenty-four hours ago—apparently just before the museum opened and long before the arrival of [MASK] and the mysterious il Duomino that evening.

""	Bertrand	“[MASK] didn’t see it that way. He dreamed of fixing the fatal flaw in human evolution . . . the fact that our species is simply too prolific. We are an organism that, despite our unmatched intellect, cannot seem to control our own numbers.

Mask	Langdon	To look for a plague. This strange day had left [MASK] feeling as if he were moving through a landscape composed of nothing but vague shapes with no particular details. Like a dream. Ironically, nightmares usually woke people up . . .

""	Maurizio	[MASK] shrugged good-naturedly. "Your choice. Hold on! ” The engines revved and the limo began cutting through the heavy chop, falling into one of the travel lanes marked by buoys. The passing cruise liners looked like floating apartment buildings, their wakes tossing the other boats like corks.

Ponyboy	Sienna	“[MASK], I’m so sorry. I heard the phone message. I don’t know what to say.” “Thanks,” she replied. “But we need to focus on you at the moment. Please sit down.”

""	Sinskey	“You’re just figuring this out now?! ” “Yes, that is correct. Just now.” His tone was earnest. [MASK] tried to shake off the cobwebs. “Who are you?” “Someone who wants to help you before it’s too late.

Caffeine	Langdon	“Caffeine,” she said. “For when I work night shifts like tonight.” [MASK] put the pills in his mouth and glanced around for some water. “Chew them,” she said. “They’ll hit your system faster and help counteract the sedative.”

""	Sinskey	I’ll show you.” The provost looked uncertain but went to his computer and launched a search engine. “Search for ‘FM-2030,’” [MASK] said, settling in behind him. The provost typed FM-2030, and thousands of Web pages appeared.

Molly	Sinskey	This man seemed to have been complicit with her enemy for the last year, and yet, as she listened to the details, [MASK]’s gut told her she needed to trust what he was saying. I have no choice but to comply.

""	Langdon	I am life, she said. Without warning, a colossal image materialized in the sky above her—a fearsome mask with a long, beaklike nose and two fiery green eyes, which stared blankly out at [MASK]. And ... I am death, the voice boomed.

Gerty	Elizabeth	“Yes," the lanky man finally said. "Silent terror is an apt response to this graph. Seeing it is a bit like staring into the headlight of an oncoming locomotive.” Slowly, the man turned to [MASK] and gave her a tight, condescending smile.

""	Sienna	“I figured it out! ” “What?” [MASK] looked confused. "We’re looking for a treacherous doge who severed the heads from horses! ” “Yes?” “The poem isn’t referring to live horses.”

Gondola	Langdon	The engines revved and the limo began cutting through the heavy chop, falling into one of the travel lanes marked by buoys. The passing cruise liners looked like floating apartment buildings, their wakes tossing the other boats like corks. To [MASK]’s surprise, dozens of gondolas were making this same crossing.

""	Marta	“And the mask is this way?” What's the hurry? [MASK] needed another minute to regain her breath. “Yes, but you might be interested to hear about this.” She pointed across an alcove toward a small staircase that disappeared into the ceiling.

Gerty	Langdon	The truth can be glimpsed only through the eyes of death. [MASK] had thought perhaps the mural included a corpse whose dead eyes were gazing blankly off toward some other clue in the painting . . . or perhaps even elsewhere in the room.

""	Zobrist	. evaporating into the snowy night. For the first time ever, I feel a yearning unfettered by shame. I want him. Ten minutes later, we are in [MASK]’s hotel room, naked in each other's arms.

""	Sienna	“Run, [MASK]!” shouted the struggling man. “Now!” The Gypsy saw their eyes lock in an exchange of pained regret. . . and then it was over. The man was dragged roughly down through the window and back into the basilica.

""	Langdon	His partner gave a reluctant nod. “Do it.” [MASK] felt powerful fingertips expertly probing the arteries and veins on his neck. Then, having located a precise spot on the carotid, the fingers began applying a firm, focused pressure.

Maid	Sienna	Amid this chaos of child prostitution, panhandlers, pickpockets, and worse, [MASK] found herself suddenly paralyzed. All around her, she could see humanity overrun by its primal instinct for survival. When they face desperation . . . human beings become animals.

""	Briider	A hush fell across the cistern as everyone waited, praying to see only green lights. And then it happened. On the machine closest to [MASK], a virus-detection light began flashing red. His muscles tensed, and his eyes shifted to the next machine.

provoost	Sinskey	The provost shook his head. “In the simplest terms,” [MASK] explained, “Transhumanism is a philosophy stating that humans should use all available technologies to engineer our own species to make it stronger. Survival of the fittest.” The provost shrugged as if unmoved.

""	Sienna	The Viottolone was as wide as a two-lane road and lined by a row of slender, four-hundred-year-old cypress trees. “There’s no cover,” [MASK] said, eyeing the uncamouflaged avenue and motioning up at the circling drone.

Fighting	Briider	Fighting communicable disease was often like fighting a forest fire: sometimes you had to drop back and surrender a battle in hopes of winning the war. At this point, [MASK] had still not given up the idea that a full containment was possible.

Catrovacer	Langdon	“But. . . why would someone change that?” “Catrovacer,” [MASK] whispered, eyeing the little letters that had been added to each level. “I don’t think that’s what this really says.”

""	Sinskey	Despite the researchers’ purely academic intent, their new creation possessed certain capabilities that had alarmed biosecurity specialists and had created a firestorm of controversy online. “I’m afraid it’s only going to get murkier,” [MASK] said.

""	Sienna	He turned to the canister on the table, wondering what answers might be hidden inside. “It could be incredibly dangerous to open this.” [MASK] thought for a moment. “Whatever’s inside will be exceptionally well contained, probably in a shatterproof Plexiglas test tube.

""	Sienna	As they emerged from the trees, the Pitti Palace came into view. “Nice little house,” [MASK] whispered. “Typical Medici understatement,” he replied wryly. Still almost a quarter mile away, the Pitti Palace’s stone facade dominated the landscape, stretching out to their left and right.

""	Sienna	I’ll handle this situation however you want me to handle it.” She gave a grateful nod and walked over to the window, gazing down at the street below. “Okay, this is how we should do it.” [MASK] quickly outlined a plan.

""	Vayentha	Puzzled, she glanced up. To her surprise, the surveillance drone had just lifted off again, this time near the farthest end of the Pitti Palace. [MASK] watched as the tiny craft began flying desperate circles over the palace. The drone’s deployment could mean only one thing.

Mask	Langdon	Shopkeepers had begun throwing open the metal grates that protected their shops and bars, and the air was heavy with the aromas of morning espresso and freshly baked cornetti. Despite a gnawing hunger, [MASK] kept moving. I've got to find the mask . . .

Ponyboy	Langdon	“Sounds ominous,” [MASK] said. “Like all change, it’s just a matter of degree. Technically, we’ve been engineering ourselves for years now—developing vaccines that make children immune to certain diseases . . . polio, smallpox, typhoid.

Ponyboy	Sienna	[MASK] asked. “No . . .” he stammered. “I’ve never seen anything like it.” “Well, unfortunately, I do know what this is. And I’m fairly certain it’s the reason someone is trying to kill you.”

