Jenny	Daphne	Clearly my scintillating company pales in comparison. I can see that your feet are already inching away from me.” Horrified that her body would betray her in such a way, [MASK] looked down. “Ha! Made you look.”

Lisa	Simon	With deft and knowing fingers, [MASK] slid the rest of her clothes from her body, until she was nude in his arms. Gently, because he knew she had to be almost as nervous as she was excited, he lowered her onto the bed.

Catherine	Felicity	The girls made their curtsies, not a one of them daring to meet his eye. “I have another daughter at home,” the lady continued. “[MASK]. But she’s a mere ten years of age, so I do not bring her to such events.”

Elizabeth	Daphne	That earned her a faintly amused and superior look from the duke. “And is that why you asked?” “No, of course not,” [MASK] replied, slightly offended. “I’m not so stupid as to offer help if I have no intention of giving it.

Jay	Simon	They might find contentment, but it would never be just as it was. She smiled, closed her eyes, and rested her head against his shoulder. “Good.” [MASK] watched their reflection for several minutes. And he almost believed he would be able to make her happy.

Whistledown	Simon	“[MASK], you’re being ridiculous. It’s just a gossip column.” “Whistledown—ha!” he grumbled. “I’ve never heard of any Whistledowns. I’d like to know who this blasted woman is.”

Tom	Anthony	“Just tell me where he is.” “Not unless you promise—no violence, [MASK].” She crossed her arms. “I mean it.” “All right,” he mumbled. “Say it.”

Scarlett	Daphne	His teeth scraped along her lower lip until his tongue darted out and traced the curve of the corner of her mouth. It tickled, and [MASK] felt her lips spreading into a wide, openmouthed smile. “Stop,” she giggled. “Never,” he vowed.

Tom	Anthony	“I believe that was my cue to take my leave.” She turned to [MASK] with a beseeching look. “If he comes looking for me—” “I’ll take care of it,” he said gently. “Don’t worry.”

Meursault	Daphne	“First, you must promise that you won’t read this.” He looked mortally affronted that she’d even suggested he would. “Don’t try that ‘I’m so honorable’ expression with me,” [MASK] said with a snort.

Darry	Simon	[MASK] wasn’t exactly certain how it had happened, but gradually he became aware that his peers craved his approval. He was intelligent and athletic, but it seemed his elevated status had more to do with his manner than anything else.

Captain	Daphne	[MASK] raised her brows. “That seems rather self-important of us, don’t you think, positioning ourselves at the center of the world?” “Actually, it’s quite convenient to have a universal reference point when one is attempting to navigate the high seas.”

Scout	Daphne	“[MASK],” he said, “your family will always be your family. I can never take their place.” “No,” she agreed. She twisted around to face him, her eyes like warm chocolate as she whispered, “But you can be something more.”

June	Legally	“I think,” she said softly, “that you had better leave.” He looked up, his eyes haunted. “You’re my wife.” She said nothing. “[MASK], I own you.”

Lady	Simon	Six men brought me flowers, engaged me in conversation, and one even recited poetry.” [MASK] winced. “And do you know why?” she demanded, her voice rising dangerously. “Do you?”

Tom	Anthony	“[MASK],” she said, trying to decide if she was pleased to see him or annoyed that he might be coming over to meddle in her affairs. “I hadn’t realized you would be in attendance.” “Mother,” he said grimly.

Lady	Daphne	“Does this meet with your approval?” he asked, with a nod and a wave toward the inn. [MASK] didn’t see how she could render judgment without seeing the interior, but she said yes, anyway.

Daisy	Simon	You’re liable to knock someone over.” “How did you do that?” [MASK] asked. “What, catch him?” “Yes.” She shrugged. “I have years of practice.”

Bride	Daphne	If [MASK] screamed, who would hear her? Was she close enough to her groom? Had he stayed put where she’d left him or had he tried to follow? And if he had, had he even gone in the right direction? Her groom!

Edward	Hastings	He’d spent years praying for an heir. Not a son,” he said, his voice rising dangerously, “an heir. And f-for what? [MASK] would go to a half-wit. His precious dukedom would b-be ruled by an idiot!”

Boo	Simon	She hurried to his side, whispering, “[MASK], I’m sure he’ll be fine.” “Not if he slips and gets caught in the ropes.” He motioned with his chin to a tangled mess of ropes that were hanging off the boat.

Tom	Simon	“You could marry her. Maybe you don’t love her, but I know you like her well enough. Why won’t you marry her?” [MASK] thought about telling them everything, all the reasons he’d sworn never to take a wife and perpetuate his line.

Hyacinth	Simon	His arm, after all, was still attached to her hand. She let go. “Now, slow down.” He took two exaggerated steps then broke into a trot. “No scolding for Hyacinth?” [MASK] asked.

Kyle	Daphne	He glanced down, scanned the lines, then said, “I’ll be back in four days.” “You’re leaving today?” [MASK] asked, surprised. “I don’t know how long I can keep my violent impulses in check,” he drawled.

Tom	Nigel	“No one’s as nice as you,” the man finally said. “You’re the only one who ever smiles at me.” “Oh, [MASK],” the girl said, sighing deeply. “I’m sure that’s not true.”

Margaret	Daphne	Of course the arrogant boor didn’t even give her the chance to accept. Before [MASK] could manage an “I’d be delighted,” or even a mere, “Yes,” he had her halfway across the room.

Dion	Simon	It doesn’t suit you.” [MASK] paused, rather irritated that this slip of a girl had shown such disrespect for his authority. There were advantages to being considered a dangerous man, and being able to cow young maidens was supposed to be one of them.

Bride	Daphne	Never had he been so thankful for the hard-won control he had learned to exert over himself. His entire body ached to plunge into her and finally make her his in truth, but he knew that this night—their wedding night—was for [MASK], not for him.

Elaine	Daphne	In fact, I regret it already, but why exactly did you assume I was”—he shuddered—“unable to perform?” “Well, you said you couldn’t have children.” “[MASK], there are many, many other reasons why a couple might be unable to have children.”

Marge	Penelope	” When he did not agree with her quickly enough, she added, “Have you ever known her to fall asleep in the middle of a conversation?” “Not since—” He cut himself off. [MASK]’s smirk grew significantly less subtle.

Silas	Simon	He was intelligent and athletic, but it seemed his elevated status had more to do with his manner than anything else. Because [MASK] didn’t speak when words were not necessary, people judged him to be arrogant, just as a future duke should be.

Him	Daff	“What’s wrong?” She said nothing, just stared at the wet spot on the other side of the bed. His seed. “[MASK]?” He’d told her he couldn’t have children. He’d lied to her.

Katniss	Daphne	[MASK] gasped as the edge of the glove trailed past the tips of her fingers. The sound of her breath rushing across her lips made him want her all the more. With tremulous hands, he slid the ring on her finger, easing it over her knuckle until it rested in place.

Jessie	Daphne	And it felt so good . . . “Please,” he pleaded, sliding his other hand underneath her so that he might press her even more tightly against him. “I need you to—Now, [MASK], now!” And she did.

Lila	Daphne	It was a very long trip home. Later that night, as [MASK] prepared for bed, she found herself oddly restless. Sleep, she could already tell, would prove impossible, so she pulled on a robe and wandered downstairs in search of warm milk and some company.

Tom	Simon	[MASK] burst out, the words escaping his mouth like an explosion. “Well, yes.” Her eyes narrowed. “Are you laughing?” “No,” he gasped. Her lips twisted into a small scowl. “You certainly look as if you’re laughing.”

June	Daphne	[MASK]’s head tilted slightly as furrows formed in her brow. “Is that why you left?” He nodded once. “It wasn’t about—what I did?” His eyes met hers evenly. “I didn’t like what you did.”

Scarlett	Simon	It was far too easy to spill her innermost thoughts when he looked like that. “Oh, [MASK],” she sighed, closing her eyes against the tears that were pooling in her eyes. She should get up. She should absolutely positively get up now and leave him to his rest.

Stuttered-Man	Simon	“What is he saying?” [MASK] attempted the sentence again. “D-d-d-d-d-d-d—” “My God,” the duke breathed, horrified. “He’s a moron.”

Tom	Simon	“Only fine?” He pretended to wince. “ ‘Fine’ is so pale a word, don’t you think? Almost wan.” “Well,” she allowed, “I might have misspoken.” [MASK] felt a smile forming in his heart.

She	Simon	“He apparently disagreed.” [MASK] stared at the bundle. Anywhere but at her face. “And so, apparently, did you,” he said in a very quiet voice. She nodded and sat next to him. “Do you want to read them?”

Edmund	Hastings	“[MASK] is going to go to a half-wit,” the duke moaned. “All those years of praying for an heir, and now it’s all for ruin. I should have let the title go to my cousin.”

She	Simon	“Just enjoying the excellent weather.” [MASK] was leaning his head against the back of the chair, so he just rolled it to the side so he could look at her. “And the company’s not that bad,” he teased.

Hannah	Hastings	“D-d-d-d-d-d-d-don’t you h-h-h-h-h-h-hit”—Simon took a deep breath—“me” [MASK] sank onto the window seat, his head dropping into his hands.

June	Simon	[MASK] kept speaking to her in low, soothing tones as he examined her body for injuries. She didn’t appear to have suffered anything worse than a few bad bruises and having the wind knocked out of her, but one could never be too careful, and with the baby . . .

Isabella	Simon	[MASK], too, was exhausted. It wasn’t every day that a man resigned himself to death. And then to be saved by—and betrothed to!—the woman who had occupied his every dream for the past two weeks.

Boo	Simon	He’d woo her and he’d win her, and— [MASK] let out a loud, unattractive belch. Well, it was going to have to be enough to woo her and win her. He was far too intoxicated to think of anything else.

Daisy	Daphne	That remark earned him another smile from [MASK]. “Well, true or not,” she said, “he thinks you’re up to something.” “I am up to something.” Her head tilted sarcastically as her eyes rolled upward.

Drake	Daphne	I’d rather not have to drag him out until I’ve a carriage waiting.” [MASK] gave him a sensible nod. “Do you need help righting him, or should I proceed directly to the library?” The duke was silent for a moment.

Thomas	Simon	It would have been the height of rudeness to spurn her invitation, especially since it had come accompanied by a personal note welcoming him back to the country. Since [MASK] knew his way around this house, he’d entered through a side door.

Quasimodo	Simon	“I sent him letters. Hundreds of letters, begging him to come visit me. He didn’t answer one.” “[MASK]—” “D-did you know I didn’t speak until I was four? No? Well, I didn’t.

Matt	Simon	I told you I wouldn’t have children—” “You told me you couldn’t have children,” she interrupted, her eyes flashing with anger. “There’s a very big difference.” “Not,” [MASK] said coldly, “to me.

Polaris	Daphne	“How can a sky look wrong?” He shrugged, lifting one of his hands in an unknowing gesture. “It just did. All the stars were in the wrong place.” “I suppose I should want to see the southern sky,” [MASK] mused.

Tom	Daphne	“What?” [MASK] just smiled and touched his cheek. She understood him so much better now. After facing such rejection as a child, he probably didn’t realize he was worthy of love. And he prob- ably wasn’t certain how to give it in return.

Daisy	Simon	But his fingers only tightened. And so, although she knew it was not his intention, she let herself be drawn to him, slowly moving closer until they were but a foot apart. [MASK]’s breathing grew shallow.

Lena	Daphne	[MASK], frightened now, scurried back, her hand reaching for the doorknob in case she needed to escape. “Of course I know I’m not an idiot,” he spat out, “and in the end, I think h-he knew it, too.

Dawson	Anthony	“I’m just curious,” she muttered defensively. “You had better not be thinking about trying to get him to marry you,” [MASK] said with a grunt, “because I’ll tell you right now he’ll never do it. Never.

Mom	Daphne	“Well,” [MASK] said, clearly disgruntled. “I thought my question made perfect sense, seeing as she has eight children. But then she told me that—” He shook his head and held up a hand, and now he looked like he didn’t know whether to laugh or cry.

Atticus	Simon	he drawled. [MASK] took three long breaths in through his nose, his mouth still clamped together in anger. He forced his jaw to relax and rubbed his tongue against the roof of his mouth, trying to remind himself of how it felt to speak properly.

Scarlett	Daphne	He tugged her at her arm, and [MASK] finally gave up resisting and settled down next to him. He was warm, and he was hers, and even if she had grave fears for their future, at that moment she couldn’t resist his gentle embrace.

Lisa	Daphne	“Oh, my God, [MASK],” he moaned, his hands biting into the soft curve of her buttocks, pulling her closer, needing her to feel the pulse of desire that had pooled in his groin. “I never knew ... I never dreamed . . .”

Emma	Daphne	It always seems to work.” There was a compliment in there somewhere, [MASK] was fairly certain, but before she could dissect the sentence, her stomach did a nasty flip, followed by the oddest sort of squeeze, and then— “Excuse me!”

Lisa	Simon	[MASK] covered her in an instant. He put his hands on either side of her hips, then slid them up, pushing her arms over her head. He paused on the bare skin of her upper arms, giving them a gentle squeeze.

Mrs.Mac	Daphne	All I know is that”—Colin shuddered slightly—“she was looking at me as if she knew my every transgression.” [MASK] gave her head a little shake. “That’s just her way. And if she did see anything, she won’t say a word.”

Tom	Anthony	He scooted up the gangplank backwards on his behind—rather like a crab, actually—not at all looking where he was going. Which probably explained why he had no idea that [MASK]—who had almost managed to regain his balance— was only a few short feet behind him.

Mara	Daphne	How could they know that, I ask you? It’s not always the woman who is barren. Sometimes it’s the man’s fault, you know.” [MASK] said nothing. “I told her this time and again, but still she felt guilty.

James	Simon	[MASK] suppressed a groan. He’d interrupted a lovers’ tryst. Bloody hell. How to extricate himself without notice? If his presence was discovered, the ensuing scene was sure to be replete with histrionics, embarrassment, and no end of tedious emotion.

She	Daphne	“Mmm-hmm.” “But—” she spluttered. “But—but—” “One more ‘but,’ ” he teased, “and you’re going to start to sound like me.” [MASK]’s mouth fell open.

Tom	Violet	“Gentle” didn’t seem to apply. “But— [MASK] stood up like a shot. “Very well. Have a good night. That’s what I came here to say.” “That’s all?”

Tom	Simon	he mumbled into the mattress. “I should have known,” she whimpered. “I’m so sorry.” She was sorry? [MASK] pushed himself back up. She was whimpering? What the hell was going on?

Mrs. Fairfax	Anthony	We should be able to warm some milk. And besides, the servants are probably in bed.” [MASK] followed her out the door. “Very well, but you shall have to do all the work. I haven't the faintest idea how to boil milk.”

Sleepy	Daphne	There was no way he could possibly think a person could sleep through that. His eyelids fluttered open, and he made a funny little breathy sound—the sort people made when they woke up. He was good. [MASK] thought with reluctant admiration. He yawned.

Anne	Daphne	By the time night fell, he had almost convinced himself that he had done nothing wrong. Almost, but not quite. He had entered this marriage convinced that he would break [MASK]’s heart, and that had never sat well with him.

Lady	Anthony-	“Good God, woman, you’re not going to swoon, are you?” He couldn’t imagine why she would, but [MASK]— her brother, he reminded himself—had spent half the afternoon warning him about the effects of a young, unmarried duke on the young, unmarried female population.

James	Colin	All he’d known to tell [MASK] was to love the boy. To talk to him, and praise him, and take him riding and fishing and all those things a father ought to do with a son. All those things his father had never done with him.

Lila	Simon	He shrugged. “I thought it was what you wanted to hear.” [MASK] watched with fascinated interest as she took a deep breath and muttered something to herself. He couldn’t hear her words, but he doubted any of them could be construed as complimentary.

Mrs.Pidgeon	Anthony	“But I was so enjoying his distress.” “Hmmph.” And without another word (or another grunt) she walked away. “Strangest old woman,” [MASK] said. “I wouldn’t be surprised if she’s that cursed Whistledown woman.”

Laurie	Daphne	Her eyes moved along the lines—or at least he thought they did. The light was too dim to see her expression clearly, but he had seen her reading letters enough times to know exactly what she must look like. “He had terrible penmanship,” [MASK] murmured.

Tom	Simon	I thought that the purpose of our little charade was to shield you from the tender mercies of matchmaking mothers.” [MASK] waved off her comment, as he settled deeper into his own chair. “It would only be a problem if I were not enjoying myself.”

Judge	Simon	His frown was enough to shake the plaster off the walls, but true to his word, he remained utterly silent. Until [MASK] finished with, “And that’s that.” There was silence. Dead silence.

Tom	Anthony	“Well, whatever the case,” [MASK] added, respecting his friend’s privacy by not delving further into what was obviously an uncomfortable topic, “I’m glad to have you back. I might finally get some peace next time I escort my sister to a ball.”

Dion	Anthony	“Good,” [MASK] grunted, “because the third condition is this: Ifl ever, even once, catch you in any behavior that compromises her ... If I ever even catch you kissing her bloody hand without a chaperon, I shall tear your head off.”

Dad	Benedict	Tonight I merely wish to enjoy the company of my beloved family.” [MASK] let out a snort. “You must be completely broke if you’re calling us ‘beloved.’ ” But he leaned forward to give his brother a hearty hug all the same.

Daisy	Simon	“Isn’t that what everyone calls it?” He waved off her question. “What else did she say?” “She told me that the, ah, whatever it is you wish to call it—” [MASK] found her sarcasm oddly admirable under the circumstances.

Lady	Daphne	The house seemed preternaturally quiet as [MASK] made her way down to the yellow room. She wondered if all the servants had learned of her husband’s departure and were now studiously avoiding her. They had to have heard bits and pieces of the argument the night before.

Julia	Daphne	“Love me? You said you loved me, you know.” He frowned. “I don’t think you can take that back.” [MASK] let out a long sigh. She should be furious with him—blast it all, she was furious with him!—but

Julia	Daphne	[MASK] felt a twinge of guilt—but only a twinge. She needed to be alone. She needed to move fast. She slowed down as she reached a slightly wooded area and took a deep breath of the crisp autumn air.

Scout	Simon	Her mouth was quivering slightly, as if she wasn’t quite sure if she had anything to say, and her eyelids seemed to be blinking a bit more than normal. [MASK] searched her face, but he couldn’t read her emotions the way he usually could.

Mother	Simon	“I could not resist. With four brothers, after all, one must always seize the moment when one may say, ‘I told you so.’ ” [MASK] looked from sibling to sibling. “I don’t know which one of you I pity more.”

Lisa	Daphne	“More,” he gasped. “Now.” [MASK]’s head fell back as she moved down that last inch. Her hands clutched at his shoulders as she gasped for breath. Then he was completely within her, and she thought she would die from the pleasure.

Blanche	Simon	Because to do so would be to shatter every last one of her dreams, and rake or not, [MASK] wasn’t certain he could live with himself if he did that. He would never marry, never sire a child, and that was all she wanted out of life.

Jane	Violet	You know very well I warned you about allowing men such liberties!” “It hardly signifies now that we’re to be married!” “But still—” [MASK] gave a deflating sigh. “Never mind. You’re right. It doesn’t signify.

Smaug	Benedict	“I’ll wait until she’s extricated herself. I have no wish to be flayed alive by that dragon.” “Speaking of dragons,” [MASK] said pointedly. His head didn’t move, but his eyes flicked off to the left.

Molly	Daphne	But if you deny yourself the joy of fatherhood because of a dead man, then you’re a coward.” [MASK] winced as the insult crossed her lips, but it had to be said. “At some point you’ve got to leave him behind and live your own life.

Mr. Darcy	Simon	[MASK] crossed his arms, but he wasn’t able to keep his face completely free of amusement. “That wasn’t very well done of you,” he said. “Bah. She’s feathers for brains, and so do her girls, except maybe that unattractive young one.”

Amelia	Daphne	“We shall pretend to have developed a tendre for each other. I won’t have quite so many debutantes thrown in my direction because it will be perceived that I am no longer available.” “No it won’t,” [MASK] replied.

Witch	Daphne	“Why you—You—” As retorts went, it wasn’t especially effective, but it was all [MASK] could manage to get out. Her powers of speech tended to fail her when she was angry. And she was really angry.

Wife	Daphne	[MASK] frowned. This didn’t look right. Should she intervene? She watched them argue a few moments longer. Clearly, she should intervene. Taking steps that weren’t hesitant yet could never be called determined, she made her way over to her husband’s side.

Heathcliff	Simon	[MASK] didn’t know why he didn’t answer her question in a straightforward manner, but some devil within caused him to reply, “My intention had been to be your rescuer, but you clearly had no need of my services.”

Catherine	Daphne	“Never mind. You’re right. It doesn’t signify. You’re to be married, and to a duke no less, and if he kissed you, well, then, that was to be expected.” [MASK] just stared at her mother in disbelief.

