Gwendolyn	Sharon	[MASK] walks to the Hertz desk, and stands there, and smiles, somewhat insistently, at one of the young ladies behind the desk. “Do you speak English?” she asks the young lady. The young lady, anxious to prove that she does, looks up, determined to be helpful.

Tom	Fonny	“How’s [MASK]?” “He’s just the same. He’s fine. He sends his love.” “Good. You see the lawyer?” “Not today. I have to go on Monday—you know—after work.”

Valet	Jaime	She tips [MASK] when they arrive at the hotel. Then, as her bag is carried into the hotel, she looks suddenly at her watch. “My God,” she says, “do you think you could wait for me, just for a minute, while I register?

Macbeth	Fonny	“You cunt,” says [MASK]. He picks up the chisel again, and approaches the waiting wood. He touches it very lightly with his hand, he caresses it. He listens. He puts the chisel, teasingly, against it. The chisel begins to move.

Sam	Sharon	[MASK] put out her cigarette, and immediately lights another. “It’s on me. Give me the usual. And give the lady what she’s drinking.” The waiter goes. “Look at me.” “I’m looking at you.”

Scout	Ernestine	It’s a miracle to realize that somebody loves you. “Tish?” [MASK], gesturing with her cigarette. “Yes.” “What time you seeing the lawyer on Monday?” “After the six o’clock visit. I’ll be there about seven.

Jenny	Fonny	“I love you, [MASK]. I love you.” “How’s the baby coming?” “It’s growing. It’ll start showing more next month.” We stared at each other. “Get me out of here, baby.

Atticus	Joseph	[MASK] put his glass down. Then he picked it up again. He was trying to speak; he wanted to speak; but he couldn’t. And he looked at me as if he was trying to find out something, something my face would tell him.

Jem	Sharon	There is terror in it, too, and a certain covered terrified sympathy. [MASK], still not absolutely certain that she can move, yet senses that whether she can move or not, it is better not to change her position against the open door.

Julie	Fonny	“You can do better than that.” “Is this better?” “Yeah. Give us a kiss.” no I kissed the glass. He kissed the glass. “You still love me?” “I’ll always love you, [MASK].”

Mama	Sheila	I must have a dirty mind, [MASK]. I didn’t know that you could even say that word.” Then real hatred choked off the air. Something bottomless occurred which had nothing to do with what seemed to be occurring in the room.

Sodapop	Fonny	[MASK] hates shopping. He said, “Wait one minute. I’m going to buy some cigarettes,” and he went up the street, just around the corner. I started picking out the tomatoes, and I remember that I was kind of humming to myself.

him	Fonny	“Do you want to bring this baby here, or not?” The way he looks at me, and the way he sounds, scares me half to death. “Yes,” I say, “I do.” “And you love [MASK]?”

Willie	Teddy	[MASK] had the tambourine, and this gave the cue to the piano player—I never got to know him: a long dark, evil-looking brother, with hands made for strangling; and with these hands he attacked the keyhoard like he was beat- ing the brains out of someone he remembered.

Scout	Fonny	The faces around me, I had never seen. We moved in a silence which was music from everywhere. Perhaps for the first time in my life, I was happy and knew that I was happy, and [MASK] held me by the hand.

Dawson	Fonny	He smiled—a smile both sweet and reluctant. Then, he looked at me. “But—[MASK]’s right—somebody was bound to come along some day and take you away. I just didn’t think it would happen so soon.

Carmen	Adrienne	[MASK], whose hips were wide, wore a white blouse and a black, flaring, pleated skirt and a short, tight, black jacket and low heels. Her hair was parted in the middle and tied with a white ribbon at the nape of her neck.

Quentin	Fonny	I had nothing to say. “You sure you want this baby, Tish?” my father asked me. “Oh, yes,” I said, “and [MASK] wants it, too! It’s our baby," I said.

FoodDeliveryPerson	Pedrocito	And he ain’t about to forget it.” “Well,” I say, “we’ll soon be moving downtown, to our loft.” “That’s right,” he says, and smiles again. [MASK] arrives, with our specialties.

Cerry	Fonny	I wanted to smash my tomatoes in the boy’s face. But no one had really noticed us yet, and I didn’t want [MASK] to get into a fight. I saw a white cop coming slowly up the street.

Doctor	Fonny	“He’s just the same. He’s fine. He sends his love.” “Good. You see the lawyer?” “Not today. I have to go on Monday—you know—after work.” “He been to see [MASK]?”

Tom	Jaime	Everybody knew it. [MASK] knew more about it than I knew myself. He said that I was being followed everywhere, that we were being followed everywhere, and, one night, in the taxi, he proved it. I’ll tell you about that another day.”

Scout	Clementine	I swear I did. He took me in his arms and settled me on his lap and kissed me on the forehead and rubbed his hand, at first roughly and then very gently through my hair. “You’re a good girl, [MASK],” he said.

Mama-Yehuda	Joseph	“She’ll never miss them, baby. The way they drink?” On this Sunday morning, [MASK] serves me my third cup of cocoa, the previous two having been kicked right back up, and sits down at the table before me, very stern.

Daisy	Sharon	[MASK] laughed again. “That is not,” she said, “the way he sees himself. But I guess I just would not be able to swallow the way he would see you. So. We can close the subject.

Father	Sharon	“Look at it.” * The girl turns away, again toward the window; sits down on the unmade bed, still staring out of the window. [MASK] approaches her. “Look at it. Please. The girl is my daughter.

Attorney	Frank	“Well—that’s what they want to do. But we might be able to get him out, on bail.” [MASK] says nothing. The girls giggle, in the kitchen. “How much bail?” “We don’t know.

June	Sis	I felt very quiet after my long day, and my baby began to be real to me. I don’t mean that it hadn’t been real before; but, now, in a way, I was alone with it. [MASK] had left the lights very low.

Scarlett	Frank	People make you pay for the way you look, which is also the way you think you look, and what time writes in a human face is the record of that collision. [MASK] has survived it, barely.

Mrs.	Sharon	“I am very sorry to bother you,” says [MASK], “but I do not speak any Spanish, and I have had to come here unexpectedly.” She pauses, giving no explanation. “And I do not drive.

Mother	Sharon	So, [MASK] stands still for a moment, trying to sort things out. She is wearing a green summer dress, my mother, and a wide-brimmed, green cloth hat; her handbag over her shoulder, her overnight bag in her hand; she studies the scene.

Daisy	Victoria	Remember that. But”—and she turns to [MASK], she pulls the girl toward her, the thin wrists, the bony hands, the folded arms, touching her, lightly: she tries to speak as though she were speaking to me—“you pay for the lies you tell.”

Tom	Daniel	I have not been allowed to see him.” Now, he rose and paced to the window. “What they are doing is really against the law—but—[MASK] has a record, as you know. They, obviously, intend to make him change his testimony.

John	Fonny	TWO zion [MASK] is working on the wood. It is a soft, brown wood, it stands on his worktable. He has decided to do a bust of me. The wall is covered with sketches. I am not there. His tools are on the table.

Tom	Alonzo	I am a woman. I know that she was raped, and I know—well—I know what women know. But I also ^now that [MASK] did not rape her. And I say that, to you, because I know that you know what men know.

Daisy	Fonny	Her light summer jacket is over her arm, she is holding her handbag, she has the photograph of [MASK] and me in one hand. She gets past them slowly, and, slowly, gets down the staring stairs. There are people on every landing.

him	Fonny	And it was absolutely astonishing to me to realize that I was a virgin. I really was. I suddenly wondered how. I wondered why. But it was because I had always, without ever thinking about it, known that I would spend my life with [MASK].

June	Sharon	Because that means that your youngest daughter is about to become a woman.” “Oh, shut up,” [MASK] said. “Wish to God you’d get married to somebody, then I’d be able to bug you half to death, instead of the other way around.”

Mother	Love	That baby was our baby, it was on its way, my father’s great hand on my belly held it and warmed it: in spite of all that hung above our heads, that child was promised safety. [MASK] had sent it, spinning out of us, to us.

Tom	Joe	“She’ll be here. She had to work late.” “How much you think them damn lawyers is going to cost us, before this thing is over?” “[MASK], you know damn well ain’t no point in asking me that question.”

Tom	Sharon	“Thank you,” [MASK] says, and walks quickly toward the garish doors, wide open. There is no doorman visible. But there will certainly be a doorman inside. Now, it must all be played by ear.

served	Fonny	“Okay,” I said. He had ordered paella and when it came we unjoined our hands and [MASK], elaborately, served me. “Next time it’s your turn,” he said, and we laughed and began to eat. And we had wine.

Atticus	Daniel	“That don’t mean nothing. [MASK] is still going to change his testimony, I bet you.” “He may. He may not. But I have another idea.” There we sat, in this dirty bar, two sisters, trying to be cool.

Julia	Victoria	“Hah!” says [MASK], and tries to move away. Tears rise in the dark, defeated eyes. “If you knew how many women I’ve heard say that. They didn’t see him—when I saw him—when he came to me!

Mandela	Fonny	“Please hold on. Please hold on. I swear to you that we will win, that [MASK] will have his freedom. No, it will not be easy. But neither will it be as insurmountable as it seems to you today.”

Forrest	Fonny	If you think too much about it, you really are fucked, can’t move at all.” “Let’s eat,” I say. “Come on.” I have prepared what I know [MASK] likes: ribs and cornbread and rice, with gravy, and green peas.

Tom	Joseph	I started to say something, but [MASK] said, quickly, “You bring that six-pack, man? Or, I got some gin and we got whiskey and we got some brandy.” He grinned.

Statue	Fonny	He picks up the chisel again, and approaches the waiting wood. He touches it very lightly with his hand, he caresses it. He listens. He puts the chisel, teasingly, against it. The chisel begins to move. [MASK] begins. And wakes up.

Alien	Lord	It seems to me that I am gaining weight at the rate of about three hundred pounds an hour, and I do not dare speculate on what I will probably look like by the time this thing inside of me finally kicks itself out. [MASK].

Tom	Fonny	“You tell [MASK] ?” “I just told him today. I figured I should tell him first.” “You did right. And I bet he just grinned all over his face, didn’t he?” I kind of stole a look at her

Lisa	Sharon	“No,” he says, and rises, and leaves. [MASK] sits there. She listens to the music. She watches the dancers. She forces herself to finish her second, unwanted drink. She cannot believe that what is happening is actually happening.

He	Pietro	She was screaming. She was having a miscarriage. [MASK] carried her down the steps, in his arms. She had already started to bleed.” She sips her drink. She stands at our window, very much alone.

Jane	Fonny	“I’m twenty-one, sir.” “You think that’s old enough to get married?” “I don’t know, sir. But it’s old enough to know who you love.” “You think so?” [MASK] straightened.

Tom	Fonny	Now, she sees him. Again—thinking of me, and [MASK], and the baby, cursing herself for being so inept, knowing herself to be encircled, trapped, her back to the wall, his back to the door—she yet must go for broke.

Heather	Sharon	In the distance there is an archway, not unlike the archway through which she has walked, abandoned by the Moors. She turns and looks at the girl. The girl is looking down at the floor. “Were you born here?” [MASK] asks her.

Jack	Fonny	“It wasn’t. I let them fuck over me because I was scared and dumb and I’m sorry now.” He is silent. Then, “Two years!” “By the balls,” says [MASK].

Mama	Tish	Like [MASK] ain’t got no sense at all, man—she trusts everybody. She walk down the street, swinging that little behind of hers, and she’s surprised, man, when some cat tries to jump her. She don’t see what I see.”

Marcus	Ernestine	“He won’t talk to you,” [MASK] said, “the way he’ll talk to me, can you dig it?” “Yes,” I said, finally, “I can dig it.”

Moonman	Bell	We don’t have any other: that’s it. And I realize, too, that if we thought it were feasible, we might very well be sitting here, cool, very cool, discussing ways and means of having [MASK]’s head blown off.

Allen	Fonny	His shirt is open to the belly button, he has one arm around me, and we are both laughing. The other is of [MASK] alone, sitting in the house near the record player, somber and peaceful; and it’s my favorite photograph of him.

Ratson	Fonny	He looks at [MASK] quizzically. “I suppose that you do not exactly qualify—so, for you, I will remove the arsenic. Without the arsenic, it is a little less strong, but it is actually very good, I think you will like it.

Jem	Sharon	and He better not come nowhere near me.” And she came back into the house, with tears running down her face, and walked to the table and poured herself a drink. She lit a cigarette; she was trembling. [MASK], in all this, had said nothing.

Scout	Adrienne	“[MASK]! What’s the matter? What’s the matter?” And I remember that at that moment everything stood still. The sun didn’t move and the earth didn’t move, the sky stared down, waiting, and I put my hand on my heart to make it start beating again.

Mama	Honey	I can still hear that sound, like something heavy, with silver inside it, dropping heavy wherever she laid it down. I’d hear her say, The Lord sure blessed my soul this evening. [MASK], when you going to give your life to the Lord ?

Boo	Tish	“All right.” “Give us a smile, [MASK].” “Is that all right?” “You can do better than that.” “Is this better?” “Yeah. Give us a kiss.” no I kissed the glass.

Mama	Tish	“Well, [MASK], daughter, I do not know what you thanking me for, but you surely more than welcome.” She closed the door and I heard her in the kitchen. I took off my coat and my shoes and lay back on the bed.

Beatrice	Sis	but eighteen years old.” "That argument,” said [MASK], “and a subway token, will get you from here to the corner. If that far!” She poured the coffee. “Actually, it’s the older sister who is expected to marry first.

Mam	Tish	“I’m mighty pleased you coming to the house of the Lord this morning, [MASK],” she said. “My, you look pretty this morning!” The way she said it made me know what I have must looked like other mornings: it made me know what I looked like.

Frodo	Sharon	He seats her at a table, against the wall. “Will you have a drink while waiting?” “Yes. Thank you. A screwdriver.” He bows, whoever he is, and walks away. Two down! thinks [MASK].

Gatekeeper	Fonny	We stopped beside a low, black metal railing, with spikes. [MASK] opened a gate, very quietly. We walked down four steps, we turned left, facing a door. There were two windows to the right of us.

Daisy	Fonny	He smiled at [MASK]. “Make babies on it. That’s how I got here." What I most remember about him is that he didn’t make either of us feel self-conscious. We all laughed together.

Scout	Fonny	That’s normal. That don’t mean I don’t like you. I would surely never do anything to hurt you. You’re [MASK]’s sister. And if I love him, I got to love you.

Scarlett	Sis	I think that’s maybe why [MASK] was always in front of that damn mirror all the time, when we were kids. She was saying, I don’t care. I got me. Of course, this only made her come on stronger than ever, which was the last effect she de-

Tommy	Sharon	“Look, lady, before you go any further, just let me tell you, you can’t do nothing to me, I ain’t alone and helpless here, I got friends, just let me tell you!” And she flashes up at [MASK] a furious, frightened, doubting look.

Tom	Fonny	“I mean, you any plans, man, you hung up, or can you come on and hang out with me? I mean, right now—?” “I ain’t doing nothing.” [MASK] swallowed his beer, and paid the man.

Tommy	Jaime	“I waited for another two days. I thought, it can’t go down like that. The deal can not go down like that. [MASK] said that it could, it would go down like that. By this time, the story was all over the island.

Tom	Fonny	That same passion which saved [MASK] got him into trouble, and put him in jail. For, you see, he had found his center, his own center, inside him: and it showed. He wasn’t anybody’s nigger.

Joan	Sharon	[MASK]’s days with the drummer come back to her. Her days as a singer come back to her. They do not, as she is to make very vivid to me, much later, come back with the rind of regret.

Eachother	Fonny	The very first time [MASK] and I made love was strange. It was strange because we had both seen it coming. That is not exactly the way to put it. We had not seen it coming. Abruptly, it was there: and then we knew that it had always been there, waiting.

she	Sharon	This is not the question which the girl had expected. In fact, it is not the question which [MASK] had intended to ask. And they look at each other, the question shimmering between them the way the light changes on the sea.

Jane	Fonny	[MASK] takes my hand in his. “Hello,” he says. I say, “Hello.” “I don’t want you to feel bad about what I said to you before. You a fine, tough chick

Lincoln	Joseph	Tears drop onto the table, trickling down from the palms with which he has covered his face. [MASK] watches: the tears drip from the palm, onto the wristbone, to splash—with a light, light, intolerable sound— on the table.

Tom	Fonny	I should have said already: we’re not married. That means more to him than it does to me, but I understand how he feels. We were going to get married, but then he went to jail. [MASK] is twenty-two.

Wilson	Fonny	It seems to me that if I quit my job, I’ll be making the six o’clock visit forever. I explain this to [MASK], and he says he understands, and, in fact, he does. But understanding doesn’t help him at six o’clock.

owner	Fonny	I found a scale and I put the tomatoes on the scale and I looked around for someone to weigh them, so that I could pay and get out of this store before [MASK] came back from around the corner.

Darry	Daniel	So”—and [MASK] looked down into his beer. “What you doing—I mean, now?” “You m£an, this minute?” “I mean, you any plans, man, you hung up, or can you come on and hang out with me?

McCoy	Fonny	He don’t give a shit about me, he don’t give a shit about nobody! You want me to die in here? You know what’s going on in here? You know what’s happening to me, to me, to me, in here?" “[MASK].

Anonymous	Fonny	They’re liars, too—and we know they’re liars. But they don’t.” I remembered, for some reason, something someone had said to me, a long time ago—it might have been [MASK]: A fool never says he’s a fool.

Montag	Fonny	For, it is not so much that time has not improved him: I can see to what extent he has been beaten. This is not because I am perceptive, but because I am in love with [MASK]. Neither love nor terror makes one blind: indifference makes one blind.

Tommy	Joseph	They got him. They ain’t going to let him go till they get ready. And they ain’t ready yet. And ain’t nothing we can do about it.” [MASK] shouts, out of his fear, “We got to do something about it!”

Scout	Tish	He said, “Think about it now, [MASK].” “I just know that I love you,” I said, and I started to cry. The shawl seemed very heavy and hot and I wanted to take it off, but I couldn’t.

Darren	Ernestine	That was the thought, unspoken, which stiffened the air in our kitchen. And I felt that I should say something. But I was too tired. I leaned against [MASK]’s shoulder. I had nothing to say. “You sure you want this baby, Tish?”

Tom	Joe	He said, “I think you’ll find it’s still pumping. But I wouldn’t call it a heart.” He turned to my father. “[MASK], let the women take care of her, and come with me.”

Jody	Joseph	And [MASK] thought, If anything happens, my little girl’s baby won’t have no father. Yes. That was the thought, unspoken, which stiffened the air in our kitchen. And I felt that I should say something. But I was too tired.

James	Adrienne	What’s the matter?” And I remember that at that moment everything stood still. The sun didn’t move and the earth didn’t move, the sky stared down, waiting, and I put my hand on my heart to make it start beating again. “[MASK]!

FBI_agent	Senora	She looks again at the paper, looks around the airport, narrowing her eyes. “One moment, [MASK],” she says. She leaves her phone off the hook, swings open the small gate, closes it behind her, and disappears.

Scout	Sharon	“I know you don’t know me. Maybe you never even heard of me.” Something happens in the girl’s face, she tightens her lips, rummages in the pocket of her housecoat for her cigarettes, blowing the smoke insolently toward [MASK].

him	Fonny	“I’m not afraid,” I said. “I’ll tell him. Thanks.” “Good-night,” he said. “Good-night,” I answered, and I hurried on my way. I never told [MASK] about it.

Lovers body	Fonny	Or, we might have just completed a tribal rite. And [MASK]’s body was a total mystery to me—the body of one’s lover always is, no matter how well one gets to know it: it is the changing envelope which contains the gravest mystery of one’s life.

Mother	Adrienne	He sat down on the sofa, near [MASK], and he said, “So you saw my big-headed boy today, did you?” “Yes. He’s fine. He sends his love.”

