Jody	Ranger	I figured if he had his way, he’d come back to this piece-of-shit motor home, lure [MASK] here, and then kill us all. I was just hoping to buy some time and get us out in the open where we might be seen.

Bob	Lula	And he was wearing a blond mullet wig. “You’re right,” I said to [MASK]. “Happy shopping.” “So,” I said to the guy in front of me, “what makes you qualified to be a bond enforcement agent?”

Tom	Morelli	“Then I’m glad he doesn’t know where we are because I wouldn’t want to have to square off with [MASK]. It wouldn’t end well for either of us.” We moved onto 1-95 south, and I tightened my seat belt.

Tom	Scrog	A lumpy soiled pillow and threadbare blanket had been left on the bench seat behind the table. “I figure once we get the business up and running we can get something nice, but for now this will have to do,” [MASK] said.

Tom	Lula	“What the heck was that?” [MASK] wanted to know. “You had a expression on your face like you just had a irritable bowel experience.” I looked at the stun gun. The light was off again. “Low battery,” I said.

Stranger	Scrog	And somewhere beyond the light [MASK] sat watching me. He could see the two phones, so he was using a scope. Probably binoculars, but it could as easily be a rifle scope. “That’s my phone,” I told him.

Butch	Lula	He was wanted for arson and attempted murder. He was a third-time offender, and this was going to be an ugly capture. “How are we going to do this?” [MASK] wanted to know. “This isn’t a nice guy.

Tom	Lula	and I stared out at it, neither of us moving. “I don’t feel like doing this,” I finally said. “Me either,” [MASK] said. “I’m wore out with this job. I’m tired of dragging these people off to jail.

Dillon	Boy	“You can’t shoot her.” “Every time we see her she pulls a gun on us.” “I don’t care. You can’t shoot her. That’s the rule.” “[MASK], who died and made you boss?”

Tom	Scrog	I yelled. “Shoot, I’m sorry,” [MASK] said. “But you haven’t got much leather back there when you bend over like that.” I pulled the T-shirt down. “If you were a gentleman you wouldn’t look.”

Dog	Ranger	They’re big and hard to hide. And they’re overly protective, since the fear is that [MASK] might shoot them in the foot should they let anything bad happen to me. I stuffed a change of clothes into my shoulder bag and locked my apartment up behind me.

She	Ranger	“That includes marriage?” “Marriage, pregnancy, and anything nonconsen-sual.” He ran a finger under the strap on my tank top. “I will make a move with partial consent.” [MASK] collected the bags and empty coffee cups and newspapers.

Tom	Meri	“When did you call?” “About an hour ago.” I grabbed my bag and stuffed the file in it. “Let’s roll.” [MASK] looked hopeful. “Me too?” “Yes. We shouldn’t have a problem with this.

Apothecary	Lula	“No, that’s okay,” I said. “I’m trying to decide on these oils.” “I think you should come take a look,” [MASK] said. “I might need you to, you know, help me out here.”

Darlene	Lula	“I’m not going in,” I said. “If she shoots you, you’re going to have to drag your ass out the door, because I’m not going in to pick you up.” “Hunh,” [MASK] said.

Tom	Morelli	“She’s surprisingly good,” [MASK] said. My mother’s eyes cut to the kitchen door, and I knew she was thinking about the booze in the cabinet by the sink. “What do you think of this outfit?”

Lieutenant	Connie	What do you want me to do, dig him up and cart him in here?” “No,” [MASK] said. “I want you to bring me a copy of his death certificate, so we can close the case and get our money back.”

Tom	Vinnie	I didn’t have time for this. I had other fish to fry. “How about this. We need someone to do filing at the bonds office. Maybe I can get [MASK] to hire you so you can work off the fee to get bonded out.”

Moss	Morelli	We’ve got federal surveillance on the office.” “I thought you were working with them.” “I’m working with one man, and he’s not sharing that information with anyone.” “[MASK] isn’t going to understand this arrangement.”

Tom	Lula	“Do you know him? Does he work for this office?” “Yeah, we all know him,” [MASK] said. “He’s a good guy, too. If he does something bad it’s because he has a good reason.”

John	Morelli	“You’re a very strange man,” I told him. “Yeah,” he said. “That’s what I hear.” I had my cell phone clipped to my waist, and I could feel it buzzing. I looked at the screen. [MASK].

Tammy	Lula	“Look on the bright side,” [MASK] said. “You got a free dildo. And you got a great movie. Happy birthday early.” “I don’t need a dildo.” “Sure you do. You never know when it might come in handy.

Tom	Morelli	And I like the way he accepts my family. And I like the way he looks with a glass of red wine in his hand, relaxed and confident, his dark eyes not missing anything. In fact, there isn’t a lot not to like about [MASK].

Molly	Lula	“I’m a bounty hunter, looking for someone,” I said to her. “I’m not buying anything here. I’ve never even been here before.” The woman hurried on, and [MASK] shook her head at me.

Officer	Morelli	A uniform was keeping traffic moving. I didn’t often see [MASK] at work, and I was struck by a few things that I already knew but didn’t always think about. He was movie-star handsome in a rugged, lean, and muscled way.

Kid	Pickle	“Don’t come near me,” he yelled. “I’ll jump.” “Fine with me,” I said. “I get my money dead or alive.” [MASK] looked depressed at that fact.

Tommy	Lula	This is worth something. Armed robbery. I could get my teeth into this one.” “Yeah, but you’re supposed to bring them in to get rebooked, not gnaw on them,” [MASK] said. “Shut up, fatso.”

Pete	Lula	Two members of the What band have agreed to do a special performance.” “We can’t do that,” [MASK] said. “We don’t have any music. And besides, we’re professionals. We don’t do this shit for nothing.”

Tom	Lula	She handed the files over to me. “They’re both business as usual. I made some phone calls and neither seems to have skipped town.” “Ready to ride?” I asked [MASK]. “Yeah, I gotta talk to you anyway.”

Mara	Julie	The only reason you’re alive is so you can see him die, but I’ll kill you now if it’s the only way to shut you up.” We all sat in silence for what seemed like a long time. [MASK] was slumped in her fake drug-induced slumber.

Bank	Ranger	[MASK]’s building was on a quiet side street in city center. It was an unremarkable building. Neatly maintained. Only identified by a small plaque by the front door and the security cameras at the entrance to the underground garage.

Dorian	Scrog	And then the trunk opened, and I saw [MASK] again. Still in drag in the brown wig. “Feeling better?” he asked. “No, I’m not feeling better. I’m feeling pissed off that you keep stun-gunning me.”

Band	Sally	My father had a plate of Italian cookies in front of him and a cup of coffee. “Band?” “You don’t want to know,” I told him. “Eat your cookies. Enjoy your coffee.” [MASK] and his crew trooped in, carrying instruments and amps.

Curly	Ranger	“Lucky for you I don’t have a gun on me.” [MASK] turned to me. His voice was low and even, but there was a whisper of incredulous disbelief. “You’re not carrying a gun?” “Didn’t seem necessary for us both to have one.”

Daphne	Ranger	“The people on television are saying the bastard shot her.” “Thanks,” I said. “This has been helpful.” I got directions to the mall, drove back to the bike path, and picked [MASK] up.

Darry	Morelli	[MASK] and I ducked under the tape and went to the motor home. The door was open. There were blood splotches on the steps leading in. I went inside and raised the shades and pulled taped cardboard off windows.

Tom	Pickle	“What are you so depressed about that you want to jump off this balcony?” I asked [MASK]. “Jumping to your death is pretty severe.” “My life sucks! My wife left me and took everything, including my clothes and my dog.

Ellen	Carmen	He told her it was only a temporary job until his business took off.” “What business was that?” “He was a bounty hunter. [MASK] thought that was real cool. From what I hear, she cashed in an insurance policy so they could buy computers and shit.”

Tom	Ranger	“Sorry! I seem to be on top of you.” [MASK] kissed my neck and slid the strap to my tank top off my shoulder. And then his hand was under my little knit top, his fingers skimming across my breast.

Morticia	Meri	And he left a message on my phone this morning.” “And what about the funeral home? We left out the back door, but [MASK] said she was there, and you fainted, and then they locked all the doors and let people out one at a time.

Tom	Scrog	I hung up and my phone rang again. “I had to hang up,” [MASK] said. “If you stay on too long they can trace you.” “How do you know all these things?” I asked him. “I know everything.

Blanche	Carmen	“Call me,” I said. [MASK]’s eyes narrowed. “1 knew you’d have a number for him. Bitch!” And she reached behind her and drew a gun. I stomped on the gas and the Mini sprang off the curb and jumped forward.

Tom	Lula	That’s going to be you doing the calling, right? You’re a way better liar than I am.” I cut my eyes to [MASK]. “You’re an excellent liar.” “Maybe, but I gotta be saving myself for tonight.

FoodFairy	Ranger	“He’s not going away until he completes his family.” I opened the refrigerator door. “And look at this. Here’s a piece of good news. While we were gone the food fairy arrived and filled the refrigerator.” [MASK] grabbed a beer and a roast beef sandwich.

Amanda	Meri	“I was sort of putting myself in his place.” Okay, so that was liar, liar pants on fire, but there was something about [MASK] that had me on guard. Hard to say what it was, but she still felt off to me.

Tom	Anton	“No offense,” [MASK] said. “I like pussy. I especially like fat black pussy. But it’s not like pussy can do the same job a man can do. Everybody knows that. That’s a scientific fact.”

Mom	Ranger	I left [MASK] sitting in the SUV and took the picture into the deli. It was a little mom-and-pop business. A butcher in the back behind a glass case filled with sausages and pork roasts and chicken parts.

Doodlebag	Sally	“They look real pretty, but they don’t seem practical. [MASK]’s doodle sack lost all its feathers. Not that it don’t look good bald like that, but it must be a lot of work putting those feathers back all the time.”

Bob	Julie	It looks to me like he went through the woods with [MASK]. If you follow the trail he left, you come to another dirt road. He probably had a car stashed there. There are fresh tire treads on the road.

Tommy	Scarzolli	and I crossed the street and hid in the narrow alley separating the store from the neighboring business. The front lights went out, and we heard the door open and close and the deadbolt get thrown. I peeked around the comer and saw that [MASK] was walking in the wrong direction.

Mama	Grandma	“I can’t go forward, and I can’t go back.” [MASK] elbowed her way over to us. “I lost my sense of direction. Which way’s the casket? I can’t see a darned thing.”

Bubbles	Connie	“I’m wearing my best thong. Just ’cause I used to be a ’ho don’t mean I’m cheap. Problem is that little thong stringy gets lost in all my derriere.” “Tell me again what you’re doing in this getup,” [MASK] said.

Tom	Ranger	“Don’t worry about it,” [MASK] said, flipping the light on. “We won’t be in here long. There’s not a lot to see.” It was a one-bath studio apartment with a small kitchenette along one wall.

Bigger	Caroline	“Yeah,” [MASK] said in her deep smoker’s voice. “Life is good.” “It isn’t that good,” I told her. “You’re going to have to come with me. Now.” “Okay,” she said.

Jules	Ranger	Daughter of Trenton bounty hunter is kidnapped and wife murdered.” “Do you have any theories? Suspects?” “I’m working on some angles. And I’m under a lot of pressure from above to bring [MASK] in.” “Understood.”

Betty	Joyce	I went all through school with her, and she was a misery. And before the ink was dry on my marriage license she was in bed with my husband, who is now my ex-husband. Thank you, [MASK].

Rosie	Lula	And I thought it wouldn’t hurt to have an armed cop in the room.” “[MASK] can’t sing. I’ve heard her sing. She’s tone-deaf.” “Yeah, but she looks good in her dress.”

Ramona	Connie	They just open their big oversize mouths and yell. And you gotta admit, I look good in this here dress. Nobody gonna be paying attention to my singing when I’m wearing this dress.” “She’s got a point,” I said to [MASK].

Chaps	Lula	“Yeah, and chaps makes your ass look big,” [MASK] said. “You go around looking like that and the fashion police gonna come after you.” “I always dress like this,” the guy said. “I ride a Hog.”

Dad	Morelli	“When I came home to change clothes.” “You should check in with him. See if anything new is going on. Let him know you’re working tonight.” I slouched against the counter. “I hate lying to [MASK].”

Darry	Scrog	The skin tone might have been the same, but the hair, and the build, and the clothes were all different. You had Tank two people away to the side of you, and he didn’t spot [MASK] either.”

Scout	Stephanie	Are you there?” “Who’s this?” she asked whisper-soft. “It’s [MASK]. Are you okay?” She took a moment, and I was unable to breathe, waiting for her answer. “Yes,” she said.

Miss	Ranger	Keys went in a dish on the sideboard in the front entrance hall. Also on the sideboard were fresh flowers in a small glass vase. Probably the flowers were never once noticed by [MASK]. Mail was stacked in a silver tray. I leafed through the mail, checking the post- marks.

Brad	Ranger	And then his hand was under my little knit top, his fingers skimming across my breast. He kissed me, and our tongues touched, and his mouth moved lower and lower. . . and lower! And this is the thing I knew about [MASK] from the one time we’d been together.

Howard	Scrog	“They make the best coffee. Everybody knows that.” “They just put a lot of cream in it,” [MASK] said. “All it does is clog your arteries up. And I don’t ever remember seeing a Dunkin’ Donuts here anyway.”

Rakeen	Morelli	“You don’t talk much about being a cop anymore.” [MASK] tossed the ice pack to the floor. “I’m working homicide. There’s not much I’d want to talk about. I’m up to my armpits in gang-related killings.

James	Julie	“I’m managing.” “Any luck?” “It’s like the earth swallowed this guy.” “He needs to eliminate you before he can move on.” “Many have tried. None have succeeded. Tell me about [MASK].”

Riot	Pickle	People were dotted around the atrium, looking up at him. The elevator opened behind me and a man in a suit stepped out. “What’s going on here?” he wanted to know. “Don’t come near me!” [MASK] yelled.

Darry	Lula	He’s currently driving a school bus days and playing guitar nights. His bands are always a collection of misfits. Good musicians most of the time who, for one reason or another, don’t fit in anywhere else. In a bizarre way, [MASK] would be a perfect addition.

Bea	Connie	Get names and phone numbers and some work information and tell them we’ll be in touch. Put a star by anyone who has potential.” Forty-five minutes later, the last of the BEA wannabes walked out the door, and [MASK] hung out a closed sign.

Tommy	Pickle	This floor’s marble, and his head’s gonna crack open like a fresh egg, and there’s gonna be brains and blood all over the place.” I disconnected and relayed the message to [MASK]. “I have a plan,” he said.

Jenny	Ranger	“Sorry. You always get up so early.” “Not today. Talk to you later.” And he hung up. I stomped out of the bedroom and into the kitchen where [MASK] was making coffee. “I’m going out,” I said.

Boss	Ranger	No kidding! “Go back to work,” I told him. “I’m going to take my coffee into the shower. I’ll be ready to go in a half hour.” [MASK] had parked on a side street a block away from my building.

Beyoncé	Sally	I’m wearing my new feather outfit, and [MASK] and me got a new song rehearsed. I’ll have to get there when the doors open, so I can fit it all in.” “Isn’t seven early for a band to play?”

Tom	Ranger	He phoned it in and paid for it with a stolen credit card. You have to give this guy credit. He’s got skills.” I recorded a greeting on the answering machine and gave my cell number. “I should get back to work,” I told [MASK].

Tommy	Connie	I swear, I’ll kill all the motherfuckers if I have to.” “Good to know,” I said. “You can go get breakfast now.” [MASK] rolled in while I was interviewing idiot number 5. “How’s it going?”

Tommy	Pickle	“Tell [MASK] he’s gonna make a big mess if he jumps. This floor’s marble, and his head’s gonna crack open like a fresh egg, and there’s gonna be brains and blood all over the place.”

Squints	Scarzolli	“She’s seventy-two. You could break something that can’t be fixed. Hard to find spare parts for something that old.” A more likely scenario was that she’d beat the crap out of me. “Are you riding with me for [MASK]?”

Drake	Morelli	[MASK] snagged a waitress by the strap on her tank top, gave her a twenty, and ordered two Coronas. “You’re disturbingly good at this,” I said to him. “I had a wild youth.” That was an understatement.

Daisy	Morelli	Or maybe she’d gone for a walk. Or maybe she was in a second car, using the SUV as a decoy. I wound through the Burg watching my rearview mirror for a tail. No tail appeared, so I drove to [MASK]’s.

John	Morelli	[MASK] helped me to my feet and wrapped a supporting arm around my waist. People had been cleared away from me. A paramedic had just arrived and was standing to the side. “Thanks,” I said to the paramedic. “I’m okay.”

Alley	IB	The doors were missing. It looked like they were using [MASK] to dump garbage. A stained mattress and a bunch of fast-food wrappers on the floor in 1A. A rat as big as a beaver rustled through the wrappers. I hurried up the stairs.

Cheryl	Luis	“Are you going to make me come out there and get you?” “You think you could take me?” [MASK] said, still smiling. “Bring it on, momma. I do Pilates. I’m toned perfection.”

Police	Silvio	“I’m impressed. Where did you find them?” he asked. “In a file in your hard drive. I couldn’t get anything else because I couldn’t decode your name. If I’d been really desperate I would have called [MASK].”

Thomas	Constantine	“Try to behave yourself,” she said to my grandmother. “[MASK] had years of experience. He knew how to manage all the little disasters that happen when people get together. These two young men are brand new at this.”

Bianca	Grandma	[MASK] wobbled into an amp, snagged her heel on the cord, and fell over into the drum set, taking the bass player down with her. She was on her back, under cymbals and the bass player, with only her platform shoes showing.

Tony	Johnson	Late thirties and about 250 pounds. Lots of those pounds were fried dough and beer, but there was some muscle, too. His eyes were small and close-set and radiated mean. “Fuck off,” [MASK] said.

Lieutenant	Lula	There are too many times a crime doesn’t get solved because the investigator followed an obvious but wrong lead and ignored looking for anything else until it was too late and all other leads were cold.” “Point taken,” I said. “Well?” [MASK] asked when I returned to the office.

Movie	Pickle	And I mean, who doesn’t occasionally whack off in the multiplex? I’ve never tried it personally, but who am I to judge? I dropped [MASK] at the door, and I drove two “I thought your food pyramid might need some cheering up.”

Cousin	Vinnie	[MASK] is a cousin on my father’s side of the family, and it’s not a comfortable thought that he swam out of the Plum gene pool. He’s slim and boneless with slicked-back hair and pointy-toed shoes and Mediterranean coloring.

Hawkes	Ranger	There’d be sandwiches downstairs in the control center kitchen, but I didn’t want to go there. I finally settled on a beer and some cheese knd crackers. I went back to the computer and looked around [MASK]’s office. No photographs. No personal doodads.

Mother	Carmen	“Please,” my mother said. “I’m begging you.” [MASK] was in my lot when I exited the building. She was parked one space over from my Mini, and her windows were down to allow air into the car.

Dad	Grandma	Some of those people are as old as me.” “Nobody’s as old as you,” my father yelled from the living room. “You’re older than dirt.” “Yeah, but I’m pretty good for being so old,” [MASK] said.

Mick	Jagger	“I’d fit right in with them. They could use a chick in the band. I wouldn’t mind going on one of them tours. And I can do that walk like [MASK]. Look at me walk.”

Maggie	Grandma	“I might have to get a new dress for tomorrow night,” [MASK] said. “It’s gonna be a big hoo-ha there. I hear they’re thinking about giving out numbered wristbands if you want to get up by the casket.

Tom	Ranger	And I thought since you’re her husband you might want to hold a viewing so her friends and relatives who might be in the area could see her one last time.” “Gruesome but clever,” [MASK] said. “Let me talk to whoever is in charge.”

Norman	Scrog	And my chain can reach to the bathroom.” The sound of snoring carried from the other room. Murder and kidnapping obviously didn’t weigh on [MASK]’s conscience. No tossing and turning trying to sleep. No late-night pacing. So now what?

Mick	Grandma	“I’ve been thinking now that we’re playing all these geezer gigs we could use an older demographic in the band. You’d have to get some outfits, and we practice once a week.” “I could do all that,” [MASK] said.

Regina	Lula	“Bring it on, momma. I do Pilates. I’m toned perfection.” “I’ve got two inches and ten pounds on you. And if I have [MASK] get out of the car you’ll be nothing but a grease spot on the pavement.”

Betty	Bemie	And they make their own cookies.” “It’s creepy.” “Don’t be such a whiner. This is what I came up with. Take it or leave it.” [MASK] got out of the Mini and followed me into the funeral home.

