Tom	Bobby	She liked [MASK] a lot. He always made her laugh. And she loved the feel of his hands on her; that was always good. But now he’d told her. Now she knew. He wanted a life that would kill her.

June	Angela	[MASK]’s breath disappeared. What could she say? What could she say about something like that? She looked at her mother. But neither of them said anything. Just kept reaching into the shared bag of popcorn, eating quietly and methodically.

Tommy	Angela	They were the ones who always smelled of pee and soda and would ask you right out for a quarter if they saw you at the ice cream parlor. They hit one another a lot. [MASK] and her brothers and sisters had good home training.

Jessie	Sheila	She ran her tongue around the inside of her mouth. It tasted as though a desert resided there, hot grit and sand and the rot of dead things. She sat up, told [MASK] she was going for a shower, walked to the bathroom.

Jenny	Angela	He didn’t know if [MASK] was aware of it. But he could see it, and it made him want to cry. He didn’t call her for a few days after he walked in on them. He knew he was hurting her.

June	Mildred	And she was so jittery, washed out, nervous. She drummed her fingers against the side of her thighs through the whole meal or against her big new belly. [MASK] didn’t want to know what she’d been doing since the last time they’d spoken, all that time ago.

Mama	Hill	“You want me to crawl, white motherfucker? You wanna spit on me and make me crawl? I’m gonna piss on your grave tomorrow,” she bellowed. The crowd went wild. [MASK] smiled just a little bit.

Ma	Angela	Every now and then they had to stop the video. But they watched it to the end. And after it was over, [MASK] looked at her daughter and said, “Let’s go see what’s in that shed, all right?”

Matt	Sheila	“Sure. Let’s go to your bed this time, though.” She crawled over and kissed [MASK] deeply. She had never felt less self-conscious in her life. “Let’s go,” she said again, standing up and extending her hand.

Joe	Otis	The camera made its small metallic breathings. No point getting all into that now. I said what was easiest. “I work on a TV show.” 'You do? Which one?” “Law and Order.” “Now, [MASK] likes that one.

Mother	Angie	“[MASK]?” ‘Yes, ma’am.” ‘You remember when you was a little girl and you found this?” Her mother extended the photograph to her. It was the beautiful woman her mother wouldn’t explain.

Mama	Angie	I ain’t having that in my house. You understand.” ‘Yes, ma’am.” As soon as she left the room, she heard the tinny sound of the record player being turned on. Some of that Motown music [MASK] liked so much filled the air.

Mama	Mildred	No explanations. And from [MASK], no protests. She kissed them both and her father put one arm tight around her, something he didn’t usually do. She smelled his bay rum and gun-oil-scented skin.

Daisy	Angie	“I’m not.” He was silent for a long moment. “Don’t look that way to me.” More silence. “I don’t know about this, [MASK]. I don’t know about this.” She didn’t say anything.

Scout	Angela	When she was a little girl she always had one ribbon untied, her knees dirty, the look in her eyes she had now, as if she were seeing something you couldn’t see. [MASK] didn’t look like a girl who’d been arguing with her mother.

Cleopatra	Angela	She led [MASK] from the brilliant white marble hall with the zebra-print rug to an anteroom with blood red walls and a black bearskin rug. She was kept waiting there for the better part of a half hour. The rug still had a head.

Tommy	Grandma	I filmed her too and went to the library and learned more about the riot. One night, I came home from the library after dark. I went straight to [MASK]’s room when I got home and looked in, the way you might look in on a child.

Darl	Angela	[MASK] had the sense that they were shaking too. “Needed something to stop the bleeding. Nothing in his bag was workin’. Sent that boy, that Eddie that lives next door to him, over to get me from the store with some cotton wool and some alum.

Scout	Sheila	It’s time to go.” [MASK] picked up the picnic basket briskly, looking a little past me, the way she always did. ‘Yeah, little bit. It’s time to go.” I walked out of the apartment ahead of them, alone.

Mrs. Robinson	Angela	“I’m sure I will, sir.” But she wasn’t sure he heard her. He was sloppily kissing the blonde on the right, whose hands moved rapidly beneath the bubbles. [MASK] didn’t look too closely at what she was doing.

Bella	Angela	The audition was pretty much like any other. The look-over. The reading of a few lines of dialogue. The question: “Do you mind doing nudity?” By this point, [MASK] had had her clothes off in more movies than she cared to count.

Marilyn	Pam	She stood, nearly naked and starting to be cold for a minute before [MASK] turned to her and said, “Nice work. Hope we work together again soon.” Then she went off, her robe drawn around her shoulders. She stopped to bum a cigarette from the cameraman.

Tommy	Sheila	She’d been so sure just a little while ago, an hour ago, safe on the floor with [MASK]. But now she didn’t know. She didn’t know what she was doing. 8 Everybody knew everybody then and everyone was willing to do anything.

Dad	Mildred	She turned away. [MASK] spoke to her back. “That’s fine you broke up with him. If I hear another word about you behaving this way with anyone, you can pack your bags. You old enough to make your own way.

Mam	Angela	“Yes, ma’am.” The woman laughed, giggled really. Her sophistication fell away for a moment and [MASK] realized that they were about the same age. ‘“Yes, ma’am?’ Where you all from?” she said in an exaggerated fake southern accent.

Jonny	Rafe	[MASK] thought it might be to keep from crying. “Why’d she leave? Why didn’t she tell me? Why didn’t you?” “Like you said, you ain’t been around. I ...

Heathcliff	Rafe	She loved them both. She’d been so happy just a few minutes before. Water dripped from her misshapen hair down her back. She sloshed up to [MASK] and stood before him for a minute. Then she slapped him. He hit her back, wordlessly.

Scout	Sheil	You’d always be sorry if you didn’t do the right thing now. You know that, right?” “You know, [MASK], I finally do. Thank you, baby. I do need to stay. I don’t know.

Trudy	Grandma	She didn’t even look up as I wheeled [MASK] past her. Once I got her settled, I came back out, camera in hand. Never drop the camera. I pointed it toward my mother. “Well?” I said. “Well, what?

Mama	Angela	“Mama, I — ” “What in the name of all that is holy are you going to say to me? What are you going to say to me about that?” [MASK] felt her mouth working, tried to think of what she could say.

Mama	Foxy	It is white, too. They pull down his pants. He is screaming. He screams, “You’re crazy, [MASK]. You can’t do this.” He is wearing skintight blue underwear. She does not speak, just stares.

Calvin	Otis	My stolid, quiet uncle, [MASK], who I don’t believe I had heard say more than ten words, appeared periodically with a dish his wife had made and helped with the heavy lifting, moving furniture as needed, that kind of thing.

Coretta	Angela	And for once, not afraid. There was something about these women, these new young women, that made you think that something must be changing, that the time had come to start giving to pretty black women, not taking from them. [MASK] sat on a folding chair.

Boyfriend	Rafe	This was a new habit. She never used to buy them, just take hits off the other girls’ cigs. She buzzed, walked in, but as [MASK] went to kiss her, she turned her head away, afraid of what her breath must smell like.

Scout	J.L.	[MASK] did too. Always gave what they could, both of them. Her mama ain’t learned it yet. Always running. I did what I could for her. All those Saturdays in the dark together. Wish it had been enough. I surely do.

Forrest	Sheila	It was like [MASK] said: it wasn’t that hard to do what you needed to do to get what you wanted. You just had to close your eyes. She didn’t think about anything but the road ahead as she drove home. It was already very late.

""	Tam	“I don’t know, [MASK]. White people . . .” She trailed off. “White people always funny about this stuff. They always stick together. Can’t trust ’em, even when you think times have changed. That’s . . .

Isabella	Sheila	Her legs were warm underneath mine. Just as the fourth ring drifted toward the ceiling, [MASK] emerged from the bedroom, wearing skintight jeans and a low-cut purple blouse, her hair sleeked back into a chignon. She looked at my outfit quickly but didn’t say anything.

Derek	William	It wasn’t like she didn’t know what happened when you let things get out of hand. It had been seven years now since she’d said goodbye to [MASK]. She’d chosen what she knew was right.

She	Angela	She violated the no-fraternizing rule as much as she could get away with, but none of her regular dates had become sufficiently infatuated with her to get her out of the business yet. She was thirty-two years old. [MASK] had to sit down as the conversation ended.

Scout	Tessie	All these people all around. Makes you think what it would really be like.” She drew a deep breath. “I’m gonna go sit back down, all right, baby?” “OK.” I heard [MASK] calling to me.

Tess	Sheila	“What’s a dyke?” [MASK] stretched. “A dyke is a big, mannish woman who hates men and only sleeps with other big mannish women. Not like us. We just do it for fun.”

Deean	Angela	She was draped around a short white guy with long sideburns and a nervous smile. “That crowd was really something, huh?” “Yeah,” [MASK] agreed. The man spoke. “I think you ladies are in a massive hit.

Daisy	Cohn	I. . .” She ran out of the room. [MASK] followed her. They talked for a while that night. She cried a lot but didn’t say anything he understood. He didn’t see what she had to be ashamed of, or angry about.

Jonny	Angie	“Really?” Her hand spun in the hair at the back of her head. “Yeah. It’s good. It’s a good life.” He paused. “Listen, [MASK]. I know things didn’t end . . . well.

Louis	William	What’s it like there?” [MASK]'s eyes clouded over. “Tall. The tallest place you ever did see. With people rushing all around wherever you go. Did you ever see His Girl Friday?”

Tommy	Tam	My mother’s expression didn’t change. "I couldn’t get away,” she said levelly. “I was right in the middle of a lot of things. And [MASK] was real little still.” “Still. ’

She	Angela	[MASK] had never smoked pot before. She hadn’t expected to have to do that too. She swallowed quickly and turned to look at him. “Do you smoke?” “I haven’t, but I been wanting to try.” Where d that come from?

Emma	Sheila	She moved the ashtray aside and turned to face [MASK]. Kissed her the way they hadn’t kissed in months. “I miss you too. You’re my heart. You know that, right? You saved me. When you walked in that office that day.

Jenny	Sheil	“Yeah, I know.” “So what can’t you do?” “I can’t do this without you. I can’t live here. I can’t... I can’t have this baby without you, [MASK].”

Scout	Angela	I’ve been where you are. We can take care of it. It’s not no big thing, just like the girls said it’s not.” [MASK] tightened her arms across her stomach. She looked out the window of the car, still crying.

Drake	William	She touched the back of her hair. [MASK]’s breath warmed her neck, but she didn’t move away from him. She just gazed into the image, so familiar, even though she’d never seen it before. “It sure is something,” she said.

Laura	Angela	That ain’t it. But now you gonna have to marry him. Or something. How you gonna do the nasty with him like that and then just go on? What all would folks say?” And in that moment, [MASK] saw.

Dad	Jolene	Some nights she was horribly agitated, crying out names from long ago, my mother and [MASK] and I taking turns holding her hand in the bed as she sobbed and tossed. During the days, I felt a little lost, but I kept filming

Mama	Mildred	It curled from the sweat of his chest. On her wedding day, he gave [MASK] the picture, along with these words: “Time you had this now. You know your mama would have been proud of you.”

Mother	Sheila	She put in a school picture of me and a snapshot of the two of us together—no [MASK]. She let me open the slot of the mailbox to put it in. I did. I always loved doing that.

Jim	Angela	But I’ll tell you—it’s been good.” Her eyes were unwavering. Her mother got up and moved forward one step, then two. Her hand, when it hit [MASK]’s face, made a dull, flat crack.

Maggie	Angela	It would have been worse than running around naked, letting everyone see your naps. [MASK] touched the photo, a little self-conscious. OK. She came here to become someone new. It was time to look different too.

Ken	Rafe	Her head hurt. She wanted [MASK] to put his arms around her, but she thought she’d never ever be able to get up from the floor again if he did. She stopped screaming, looked right at him. He loved her, she knew suddenly.

Sal	Rafe	She was pretty fucked up but still beautiful. She must have been smoking all night. More than that, she was getting that look people get when it’s not happening. [MASK] had seen it before. The parts don’t come and the change doesn’t come and

Tommy	Angela	[MASK] stood in the corner, gone to stone. “Couldn’t do a thing. Folks’ll be talkin’, but I want you to know what can really happen if you start messin’ around. You can end up dead. You understand me?”

Blanche	Angela	“I know. But I’m sorry, baby girl. He was looking really good today and he seemed interested and you know . . .” She trailed off. “What do I know?” [MASK] said, her voice full of ice.

Bob	Cindy	Who was this guy anyway? “Well, I’m [MASK] here’s manager, and I think she’s going all the way with this.” He paused. “Who’s your representation, anyway?” “My what?” ‘Tour representation?”

Darry	Rafe	“You’d be giving up everything, you know. You ever seen any pregnant Bunnies? Or pregnant girls in these movies out here? And do you think [MASK] wants a baby? I doubt it. He’s out here trying to get his break.

Janie	Angela	“All right then, my sister.” He reached down and with a rapid, nervous gesture, touched the gun, then looked up. ‘You have a beautiful day. Keep the faith.” “I will,” said [MASK].

Frodo	Lou	We here for you! You know you deserve it! Go on, [MASK].” That kind of thing, at the top of their lungs. So loud and determined in fact, that he turned and offered them a broad, perfect smile.

Movie	Ange	But that’s not why I brought it up. I saw that movie when I was eleven with my mama. And well... I don’t think I ever saw anything so beautiful.” “What do you mean, [MASK]?” “I mean ...

Tom	Mildred	“They no better than dogs. Killed that beautiful woman. I spent the rest of my life trying not to hate ’em. You try not to hate ’em either. But be mighty careful before you trust one of ’em. They no better than dogs.” [MASK] nodded.

Scarlett	Tam	“Yeah, [MASK]?” “Was my daddy in the movies?” Her eyes got big and tearful. I was terrified. “As much as I was, I suppose,” she said after a long time. “Not that much.”

Anne	Tam	The camera just seemed like part of her, and she was careful to respect them, careful to turn it off when it might have been embarrassing. But it was part of her, that camera. [MASK] was who she was.

Mama	Angela	But I think about that baby every day. What. . . what happened?” “Well, she ain’t a baby anymore.” [MASK] couldn’t breathe properly, but she got the words out. “She’s asleep in the other room.

Penny	Angela	Sticking it to the pigs. That’s what it’s all about.” He looked at her breasts, wiped quickly at his nose. “You here alone, sister?” [MASK] sighed. She didn’t feel like playing the game right now.

Scout	Angela	[MASK] was on her feet before she knew it. Her mother looked at her, her fork frozen halfway to her lips. She ran upstairs, her mother’s steps behind her. She lay on her side in her old bed, sobbing. Her mother entered hesitantly.

Mrs.Dubose	Angela	Or meet him later. [MASK] didn't do that stuff, at first. She took the rules very seriously and couldn’t imagine going out with any of the key holders anyway. They were all white, all fat, all bald, it seemed.

Tutani	Sheila	What would she say now? After about half an hour, working first with the clippers and then, quick and sure, with small barber shears, [MASK] said, “There. I do believe you’re an African queen.” She held up a mirror.

Sheila	Angela	It’s time for power to the people. Let’s do it. OK?” [MASK] fingered the hair at the back of her neck. It was starting to go back already. What would it feel like to have that softness all over her head?

Boomtown	Wilt	A girl’s voice, southern. “Sure is. Who’s this?” A pause. “We met the other day, well, night really. At [MASK]’s house?” She trailed off, silence yawning. He smiled. “Sure.

Daisy	Angela	Finally, [MASK] proposed that they wash their hair so it would go back and then go to a barbershop to get it cut. “Just to start with,” she said. They washed each other’s hair in the sink.

Mia	Sheila	A couple of lights, my old video camera. I’d kept it working, even though I’d had it since I was twelve. Her girlfriend, [MASK], was there, like always, but I framed the shots so that only her arm and hand were in the frame.

Angie	Rafe	My Angie Bangie a mama. How about that?” She went over to [MASK]’s one night after this, maybe thirteen weeks along now. He’d been away on location for three weeks (his first location shoot), so she’d been able to avoid this moment.

Lisa	Bobby	Not long at all before everybody was calling them “fast” and looking the other way when they came down the street. After they finished, [MASK] lay stroking her face, not speaking. She didn’t say anything either. She felt the whole world had opened up between her thighs.

Ann	Sheila	They didn’t watch her put on her clothes. When she got into the car, which she had borrowed from [MASK], she sat for a long time, the heels of her hands pressed into her eyes. But when she started driving, she felt OK.

Holden	Sheila	She was just going to keep this slime at the back of her throat. “But what if I went ahead and kept going like this. . . and that break never comes? Maybe I’d be sorry.” [MASK] pulled out a cigarette and lit it.

Jessie	Millie	“You up, [MASK]?” “Yeah, I’m awake. How are you?” He rolled over and rested his arm across her chest. “I’m all right. You?” “I’m all right. Couldn’t sleep.”

Daisy	Angela	[MASK] dreaded the comb—her mother liked a hard press and usually burned her at least twice—but she enjoyed those soft moments before, the quiet of the kitchen, the sound of her breath in her lungs. There was no smell of burnt hair and oil yet, no infinity of sitting still.

Scarlett	Sheila	“I sure do. My daddy taught me.” No matter how hard she tried, she couldn’t get rid of her accent. [MASK] told her to stop trying, that it gave her a trademark, something for casting directors to remember her by.

John	Grandma	“Show me how the camera works before you start. That’s something I always did wonder about.” “Sure, [MASK]. I can go get it right now.” ‘You do that, baby.” I was back in a minute.

Scout	Angela	First the picking out of the seeds, then the spreading out the leaves, and, finally, with a noisy, small rattling, shaking out the paper to roll the joint. [MASK] felt like slugging her. She didn’t want to wait for the smooth absence to take her over.

Daisy	Grandma	I. . . well.. .” She took a long, shuddering drag of her cigarette and nosed the car into the next lane. “Am I gonna get to meet them? [MASK] and all, I mean.” “We’ll see.”

Daisy	Sheila	It was a desert of tedium that I traversed each afternoon without complaint only because I knew that my mother and [MASK] needed me not to mind, and though I never would have admitted it I was a little frightened to stay home by myself.

Ma-as-in-Mama	Mildred	They puttin’ ’em all with different families.” “Mm-mm-mm. Some folks just don’t know how to do.” [MASK] cut in. “Well, you know she ain’t got no man to help her and what’s she got...

Molly	Wilt	She stood up and held out her hand girlishly. He took it, bent over, and kissed it. He’d never done anything like that before. This time, back at the house, it wasn’t wild like at [MASK]’s.

MrsOldwoman	Grandma	But I didn’t want to completely freak out an old woman I’d just met. So I remained silent. Then I surprised myself. “[MASK], would you mind if I came in again with my camera? If we talked and I filmed our talks?”

Allie	Sheila	Thank you, baby. I do need to stay. I don’t know. I still can’t talk to her, you know. But I need her to know I’m here. I need to be here.” “Right.” [MASK] paused.

Sally	Tam	Have you seen my cigarettes, [MASK]?” “They’re over there.” “Thanks.” She lit up and sat down on the plastic-covered sofa, making a crinkling noise. “I can’t believe I’m back here.”

Elmer	Angela	His face had the leathery texture and orangey glow of a man who owned a tinfoil tanning tray and wasn’t afraid to use it. He wore pink-tinted aviator glasses, and his hair was feathered and swept carefully away from his face. He reminded [MASK] of a weasel.

Jasmine	Jolene	Folks talking all over town,” said [MASK]. So she waited in her daughter’s bedroom after school that day, as she should have done long ago, for her daughter to come home. But this time, resolve was in her heart.

Bubba	Sheila	She yelled this last, then gave [MASK] a high-five. “We’d be rollin’. No more piece-of-crap used cars. That’s for damn sure.” She paused, picked up her cigarette again. Took a drag.

Ma	Angie	The two of them. Dancing around the living room together, getting whatever jobs they could, raising a baby girl. Who’d have thought that possible? Just like what she’d decided to do since [MASK] went off to see to her mama seemed impossible.

bed	Sheila’s	She could hardly keep her own hands off of her breasts or away from the damp, comfortable space between her legs. She threw one leg over [MASK]—it was dark, no one would see, and leaned in, close.

