Tom	Hiro	“Not always benign,” [MASK] says, remembering a friend of his who died of AIDS-related complications; in the last days, he had herpes lesions from his lips all the way down his throat. “It’s only benign because we have immunities.”

Joe	Y.T.	[MASK] just listens, smiles, and nods. Hopefully, he’s not saying something like “I enjoy really violent, abusive sex acts.” She doesn’t think he’s talking about that at all. He’s talking politics.

Jenny	Tony	She makes a dive for the door and gets halfway out, under the downblast of the rotors. [MASK] grabs her coverall’s collar and hauls her back inside. He shoves her down on her belly and puts one knee in the small of her back to hold her there.

Duke	Hiro	“I should have set it on ‘whip’ or ‘chop.’” “The Raft usually stays at least a hundred miles offshore,” [MASK] says, “to reduce the danger of snags.” “How we doing on gas?”

Tom	Hiro	It beats too fast, then it doesn’t beat at all, then an alarm sounds, then it starts beating again. He has gone completely blank. His eyes are not seeing anything. At first, [MASK] thinks that his body is limp and relaxed.

Margaret	Marietta	And later on, you climb the GS ladder, don’t have to put up with as much shit. Far be it from her to quarrel with her supervisor. Her supervisor, [MASK], doesn’t have an especially stellar GS level, but she does have access.

Jenny	Inanna	“Say hi to [MASK] for me.” “Thanks.” “When you get back, I want to spend some time with you.” “The feeling is mutual,” she says. “But we have to get out of this first.”

Marlena	lazybones	He jerks away from her. “Get up, [MASK],” she says. He gets up. He’s fine now. But all the wireheads he around him, perfectly motionless. “Just a little nam-shub I whipped up,” she says.

Daisy	Hiro	Y.T.’s in there somewhere, but no point in trying to track her down. She would be embarrassed, anyway, to be seen with an oldster like [MASK]. Now that the concert is up and running, it will take care of itself.

Buddy	Fido	But he can remember a long time ago when he used to jump over things that were taller than his head. [MASK] comes out of his doggie house, curls his long legs beneath him, and jumps over the fence around his yard before he has remembered that he is not capable of jumping over it.

Joe	Vic	This is how we avoid the trap of self-perpetuating ideology. Ideology is a virus. So getting this chick back is more than just getting a chick back. Its the concrete manifestation of an abstract policy goal. And we like concrete—right, [MASK]?”

Alan	Y.T.	“You are close to the truth.” “Would these be, like, nonhuman systems?” “That is a sufficiently all-inclusive term, I think.” [MASK] figures that for a big yes. “You tired? Want me to drive or anything?”

Batman	Hiro	What the hell, it’s an inflatable building. [MASK] turns on the radar just for a moment and the walls seem to drop away and become invisible; he’s seeing through them now, into the forest of steel outside.

Enki	Enki	“Excuse me, but how did Sumerian agriculture work? Did they use a lot of irrigation?” “They were entirely dependent upon it.” “So [MASK] was responsible, according to this myth, for irrigating the fields with his ‘water of the heart.’”

Tom	Livio	“Shit,” [MASK] says. “Where the hell did he come from?” The kayaker looks behind himself for a few moments, reading the waves, then suddenly turns back around and begins to paddle hard, accelerating, glancing back every few strokes.

Machinery	Hiro	After that—after [MASK] gets onto his motorcycle, and the New South Africans get into their all-terrain pickups, and The Enforcers get into their slick black Enforcer mobiles, and they all go screaming out onto the highway—after that it’s just a chase scene.

Google	Juanita	But they have thousands of programmers. The programmers work twelve hours a day out of some twisted sense of personal loyalty. Their software-engineering techniques, while cruel and ugly, are very sophisticated. They must have been up to something. “[MASK]?”

Jasper	Hire	A deep thump sounds from the roof of a building on his right. It’s an old building, one of the original pioneer structures from a hundred years ago. [MASK]’s knees buckle, his mouth comes open, shoulders hunch involuntarily, he looks toward the sound.

Tom	Hiro	He has been very kind to [MASK] ever since The Conversation, several years back. It was a conversation that started out as a friendly chat over beer and oysters between a couple of longtime comrades-in-arms.

Sister	Hiro	“We put in a temporary pacemaker,” a woman says. [MASK] turns. It’s a nun who also appears to be a surgeon. “How long has he been in convulsions?” “His ex-wife called us in, said she was worried.”

Rachel	Hiro	“Noise, is more like it.” “Well, all information looks like noise until you break the code,” [MASK] says. “Why would anyone show me information in binary code? I’m not a computer. I can’t read a bitmap.”

Frodo	Hiro	“Check this out,” he says, and presses a button on a little black box in his hand. The explosion is like a single drumbeat, coming from everywhere at once. [MASK] can feel it coming up out of the water, shaking his feet.

Sapir	Steiner	“Why isn’t anyone doing this kind of thing nowadays? Why aren’t there any nam-shubs in English?” “Not all languages are the same, as [MASK] points out. Some languages are better at metaphor than others.

Elvis	Raven	It’s impossibly crowded, they’ll never get a place to sit. But shortly after [MASK] comes into the room, half a dozen guys in the comer suddenly stand bolt upright and scatter from a table, snatching up their cigarettes and drinks almost as an afterthought.

Tertullian	Eusebius	[MASK] observed similar phenomena around the year 300, saying that the false prophet begins by a deliberate suppression of conscious thought, and ends in a delirium over which he has no control.” ‘What’s the Christian justification for this?

Professor	Raven	The student gets to within a yard of [MASK] and then orbits him a couple of times, always keeping the device aimed inward. When he’s finished, he steps back briskly, turns, and aims it toward the motorcycle.

Ripley	Y.T.	“Get back in the chopper, you lucky bitch!” he says. [MASK] picks up a loose poon handle that no one has bothered to reel in yet. She hits the button that turns off the electromagnet and its head drops off the chopper’s armor.

Wilbur	Y.T.	He is towering over her, standing at a respectable distance now, glinting at her through crinkly old-guy eyes. Seems pretty nice. “I can’t tell you how much I’ve been looking forward to meeting you, [MASK],” he says.

Shepard	Hiro	It extends off into the distance, away from the Core, for as far as [MASK] can see from his worthless sea-level vantage point. He’s being watched by a man high up in the superstructure of one of those Chinese ships, another wirehead.

Boss	Hiro	“Whatever.” “That’s crazy,” [MASK] says. “That’s like if you find out your employees are stealing ballpoint pens, you take them out and kill them. He wouldn’t be able to use it without destroying all his programmers’ minds.”

Masaru	Ng	thing you want—drive through! So this vehicle is much better than a tiny pathetic wheelchair. It is an extension of my body.” “When the geisha rubs your back?” [MASK] mumbles something and his pouch begins to throb and undulate around his body.

Ollie	Ng	But when something especially technical is called for—” He pauses in the middle of this sentence to make an incredible zooming sound in his nose. “Is that your thing? Security?” [MASK] scans all of his TV sets.

R.D.1	Ng	She is too busy trying to get her mind around this concept. “Your mistake,” [MASK] says, “is that you think that all mechanically assisted organisms—like me—are pathetic cripples. In fact, we are better than we were before.”

Boo	Raven	And once she’s decided that, she’s impatient to get on with it. She can move her arms, she can move her legs, but the middle part of her body is pinned in place, it’s not going to move until [MASK] moves it.

Zodiac	Da5id	They are all done up in their wildest and fanciest avatars, hoping that [MASK]—The Black Suns owner and hacker-in-chief—will invite them inside. They flicker and merge together into a hysterical wall.

Greasers	Jesuits	It sort of did, for a while, but there are ways to fight it.” “Why? Why doesn’t it work on you?” “I’ve spent the last several years hanging around with [MASK],” she says. “Look.

IBM	Hiro	[MASK] finds the hard power switch and turns it off. Computers this powerful are supposed to shut themselves down, after you’ve asked them to. Turning one off with the hard switch is like lulling someone to sleep by severing their spinal column.

Tron	Hiro	Through the use of electronic mirrors inside the computer, this beam is made to sweep back and forth across the lenses of [MASK] s goggles, in much the same way as the electron beam in a television paints the inner surface of the eponymous Tube.

Uhura	Juanita	By cutting people up with swords?” “Yeah. That’s the only thing they’re good for.” “Let’s do it the other way around,” [MASK] says. She gets up and walks off across the hangar deck.

Tom	Squeaky	“Why would she want to do that!?” “I guess you told her to, or something.” “I didn’t think she’d take off after him.” “Well, she doesn’t know that he killed the guy,” [MASK] says.

Squint	Y.T.	r, ” [MASK] says. “We’re cen-the 1-800 number.” do you think I am?” the at the guy. He’s tall, lean, rly-looking glass eye. s. iy other questions?”

Crowd	Hiro	Now he actually has to go up there and do it. In front of the seething biomass. [MASK] goes out and paves the way for him. That’s easy enough. Then he bails. He’s done his bit.

Tom	Ng	But she shuts up for a while, because in her opinion, [MASK] needs to pay more attention to his driving. Once they get out of that really creepy part, most of the Sacrifice Zone turns out to consist of a wilderness of dry brown weeds and large abandoned hunks of metal.

Moon	Hiro	“You’re just the same mystical crank you always were,” he says, smiling so as to make this a charming statement. “You can’t imagine how mystical and cranky I am now, [MASK].” “How mystical and cranky are you?”

Mary	Hiro	Like any librarian in Reality, this daemon can move around without audible footfalls. “Can you make a little more noise when you walk? I’m easily startled,” [MASK] says. “It is done, sir. My apologies.”

Y.T.	Hiro	“Y.T.,” he says, “where die hell are we?” “Driving down the street toward your house. We overshot it about six times.” Up ahead, the channel dead-ends. [MASK] does a one-eighty.

Hal	Hiro	Just a few hundred thousand ones and zeroes for me to look at.” “So in other words, someone just exposed your optic nerve to, what, maybe a hundred thousand bytes of information,” [MASK] says. “Noise, is more like it.”

UncleHaney	Hire	“He could only listen to your father fighting the lieutenant.” “It was a half-blind, one-legged samurai with a katana versus a big strong healthy man with his arms tied behind his back,” [MASK] says. “A pretty interesting fight.

Chopper	Sasha	If they just keep flying low enough to poon—which they have to, to keep the chopper under the Mafia’s radar. She can hear the radio crackling up front. “Take it up, [MASK], you’re picking up some parasites.”

Neo	Hiro	He’s ransacking more data. [MASK] wants to throw a bucket of water on him. “Makes sense,” he says. “You’re as familiar with the Metaverse as anyone. Freelance hacker—that’s exactly right.” “Exactly right for what?

Olenna	Ng	Like the people at the glove factory never dreamed that an actual female could wear gloves. She trudges out onto the glass-and-asbestos soil of the Zone, hoping that [MASK] isn’t going to slam the door shut and drive away and leave her there.

Janie	Y.T.	The big Aleut guy hauls up a chunk of rope and drapes it under one arm and over one leg in a quick motion. Then he throws one arm around [MASK]’s waist, gathering her in the crook of his arm, leans back, and falls off the ship.

Blackbeard	Lee	It erupted from the pirates’ bodies, one at a time, moving from the stem to the bow. The deck of Bmce [MASK]’s ship is now utterly quiet and motionless except for blood and gelatinized internal organs sliding down the msted steel and plopping softly into the water.

Tom	Hiro	There’s Indians who make a living doing that, you know. Chipping out eye scalpels.” “Well, you learn something new every day. That kind of a knife would be sharp enough to go through bulletproof fabric, I guess,” [MASK] says.

EBGOC	Y.T.	If this were nighttime, she’d probably see a laser scanner playing over the bar-code license plate of the taxi as it veers onto the U.S. exit. [MASK] s mom has told her all about these guys. They are the Executive Branch General Operational Command, EBGOC.

Serenity	Raven	and it was my job to catch bad guys. But I’m an Enforcer, and it’s my job to enforce order. So I’m doing everything I can—and so is every other Enforcer in town—to protect [MASK].

Lassie	Fido	Tonight there is a lot of barking from a place far away. When he listens to this barking, [MASK] knows that a whole pack of nice doggies is very excited about something. A lot of very bad men are trying to hurt a nice girl.

Hackers	Hiro	“He will try to retaliate by unleashing Snow Crash against the technological priesthood.” “I know that,” [MASK] says, “but I can only woriy about one thing at a time. I could use a little help here.”

Frodo	Hiro	It doesn’t work out in the middle of nowhere. When the weather is extremely rainy, they sit under the canopy. When it’s less rainy, they sit above it. They all have ways of passing the time. [MASK] dicks around with his computer, naturally.

Neo	Da5id	11 It doesn’t seem polite to hang around and gawk over the fact that [MASK]’s computer crashed. A lot of the younger hackers are doing just that, as a way of showing all the other hackers how knowledgeable they are.

Jenny	Y.T.	“It’s not like that,” [MASK] says. “It’s not a relationship where fucking is part of it.” But she is chagrined to learn that the dog tags, after all this time, did not have any magical effect on the bad guys.

the horizon	Hiro	Or to look in his general direction, anyway. It’s impossible to tell exactly what he’s looking at because of his goggles, a smooth convex shell over the eyes, interrupted by a narrow horizontal slit. He is looking at [MASK].

Moon	Hiro	As [MASK] begins to motor down the open space, he is afraid that it is just a little cove in the ghetto. But this is just a trick of the lights. He rounds a comer and finds it stretching out for some distance.

Watson	Ng	And some tiny little empty vials. She picks up a couple of the vials, reads their labels. “What did you find?” [MASK] says when she gets back into the van, peels off the mask. “Needles. Mostly Hyponarxes.

baby	Hiro	Headed for the rear parking lot. The car was pointed outward, in taxicab style, ready for a quick getaway, which would be fine if she were by herself—but there is [MASK] to think of. The radio is screaming, alive with hollered bursts of Taxilinga.

Steve	Y.T.	But this is a different kind of childlike glee that does not look right on a bunch of thirty-something people with dirty hair. And finally, there is a guy that [MASK] dubs the High Priest. He’s wearing a formerly white lab coat, bearing the logo of some company in the Bay Area.

Y.T.	Raven	50 [MASK] ushers Y.T. onto a flat-assed boat with a canopy on top. It is some kind of a riverboat that has been turned into a Vietnamese/American/Thai/Chinese business establishment, kind of a bar/restaurant/whorehouse/gambling den.

John	Raven	[MASK] bends down and looks under the table, picks a chair up off the floor and looks at the underside—you can never be too careful about those chair bombs—sets it down, pushed all the way back into the comer where two steel walls meet, and sits down.

Mike	Y.T.	[MASK] learns that this parking lot is linked with that of a Chop Shop franchise next door (“We turn any vehicle into CASH in minutes!”), which in turn flows into the lot of a neighboring strip mall.

Munro	Raven	[MASK] can’t move around on his feet now, because he’s lost a leg. But he can still control the bike. He’s got his long knife out now, and the two blades come together above the egg, which has become the vortex of a blinding, deafening tornado of fight and sound.

Tom	Kouriers	She mentally says a number of other things, too. The man is an obvious pervert. It’s so plain, so open: “And your name is?” Give me a break, man. Names are unimportant. Everyone knows [MASK] are interchangeable parts.

Moonlight	Hiro	Back then, the Street was just a necklace of streetlights around a black ball in space. Since then, the neighborhood hasn’t j changed much, but the Street has. By getting in on it early, [MASK] s buddies got a head start on the whole business.

John	Marietta	“I just had mine on Thursday,” she says. “Time for another one,” [MASK] says. “Come on, let’s get this show on the road.” “Hands out where I can see them,” the proctor says.

Aragorn	Hiro	[MASK] brings his own sword up, rotating it around sideways so that the handle is up high, above and to the left of his face, and the blade slopes down and to the right, providing a roof above him.

Tuberculosis	Da5id	But these demons can hardly be distinguished from the diseases they personify. . . and many of the diseases sound, to modem ears, as though they must be psychosomatic.’” “That’s what the doctors said about [MASK], that his disease must be psychosomatic.”

Tommy	Juanita	That ability is firm-wired into the deep structures of his brain. So he’s susceptible to that form of information. And so are you, home-boy.” “What kind of information are we talking about?” “Bad news. A metavirus,” [MASK] says.

Pete	Gurov	Red stars and a few numbers. But no one has to read the numbers to know it’s a submarine. A nuclear-missile submarine. Then it stops. So close to the Russians on their little raft that [MASK] and friends can practically jump onto it.

Sharpe	Hiro	[MASK] is bulletproof up to his neck, but that just means the New South Africans will all be going for a head shot. And they pride themselves on marksmanship. It is a fetish with them. “Isn’t there an NSA franchise down the road?”

Neo	Hiro	There’s no door. [MASK] starts walking away from the Street, toward the cube. It reflects no light at all, so he can’t tell whether it’s ten feet or ten miles away from him until the security daemons begin to materialize.

Sal	Squeaky	For now, the thinking part of his brain seems cut loose from his body, as if he has just ingested a great deal of drugs, and he’s just as cool as [MASK]. “Oh, yeah? How can you tell?”

Milo	Y.T.	We get from island to island by surfing on waves.” “Same here,” [MASK] says, “except we go from one franchulate to the next by surfing on cars.” “See, the world is full of things more powerful than us.

Fisherman	Hiro	One morning, a big old trawler materializes very close to them, congealing out of nothing as the fog lifts. [MASK] has been hearing its engines for a while, but didn’t realize how close it was. “Who are they?”

MotherTeresa	Juanita	[MASK] has been using her excess money to start her own branch of the Catholic church—she considers herself a missionary to the intelligent atheists of the world. “Don’t be condescending,” she says. “That’s exactly the attitude I’m fighting.

Netflix	Y.T.	When people want to know the particular things that they know or watch their videotapes, they pay them money and check it out of the Library, or just buy it outright. This is a weird racket, but [MASK] likes the idea of it.

coder	Kourier	“What is your daughter’s nickname?” “Y.T.” “How do you refer to your daughter?” “I call her by her nickname. Y.T. She kind of insists on it.” “Does Y.T. have a job?” “Yes. She works as [MASK].

Team	Hiro	“If you have something in mind, why don’t you just spit it out?” [MASK] says. “Okay. Policy decision. The hostage tactic failed. So we go for an extraction.” “Extraction of what?”

John	Asherah	He looks down into the flat screen on top of the fuel tank, wanting to get a status report, but it’s just showing snow. The bios has crashed. [MASK]’s possessed his bike. So he abandons it in the middle of the street, starts walking toward the waterfront.

Tower	Juanita	By the time he’s got the plastic wrapper cut away, [MASK] is waving to him from the windows on top of the control tower. He takes all the pieces that look to be part of the envelope and puts them into a separate pile.

Michael	Hiro	“Don’t get me wrong,” [MASK] says, “but aren’t you one of the bad guys now?” “Oh, you mean this?” “Yeah. Don’t you work for them?” “If so.

Medea	Inanna	The judges ‘fastened their eyes upon her, the eyes of death; at their word, the word which tortures the spirit, [MASK] was turned into a corpse, a piece of rotting meat, and was hung from a hook on the wall.’

Tommy	Y.T.	Meantime, one of the lounging-around Mafia guys is opening the back door of the truck, giving them all a nice view of a traffic jam on the boulevard. “One other thing,” the man with the glass eye says, and shoves an envelope into one of [MASK] s multitudinous pockets.

Jones	Y.T.	She goes on into Room 968A. Its an office. Four Fed guys are in here, the same as the others except most of them are a tad older, in their forties and fifties. “Got a delivery for this room,” [MASK] says.

Enemy	Rife	By the time he gets behind the cover of another plane, his sense of hearing is being overwhelmed by the approach of a chopper. It is [MASK]’s chopper, settling down on the tarmac a few dozen meters away from the jet.

Zachary	Hiro	So he wanders back out toward the periphery. “Yo! Dude with the swords,” someone says. [MASK] turns around, sees a green-jacketed Enforcer motioning to him. It’s the short, powerful guy with the headset, the guy in charge of the security detail.

Kurtz	Ng	“Three of them are back,” [MASK] says. “Three are on their way back. And three of them I left behind to carry out additional pacification measures.” “You’re leaving them behind?”

Tomas	Hiro	As [MASK] is entering their neighborhood, he sees men mnning down the undulating pontoon bridge that serves as the main street, carrying guns and knives. The local constabulary. More men of the same description emerge from the byways and skiffs and sampans, joining them.

Ricardo	Hiro	“Do you think that the manner in which you came to possess these swords was honorable?” the businessman says. “If I did not, I would long since have returned them,” [MASK] says. “Then you will not object to losing them in the same fashion,” the businessman says.

Winston	Hiro	They don’t, at least not very well. [MASK] runs between two of the security daemons and heads for the wall of the cube. He finally gets there, slamming into it, coming to a dead stop. The security daemons have all turned around and are chasing him.

Hank	Raven	She’s got a new boyfriend and he’s a mutant. Explains one or two things. “I was bom a few months later,” [MASK] continues, by way of totally hammering that point home. “How did you get hooked up with these Orthos?”

Cobb	Hiro	It digs into The Black Sun’s operating system, rifles it for information, and then throws up a flat square map in front of his face, giving him a quick overview of who’s here and whom they’re talking to. It’s all unauthorized data that [MASK] is not supposed to have.

