Dawn	Katje	But of true submission, of letting go the self and passing into the All, there is nothing, not with [MASK]. She is not the victim I would have chosen to end this with. Perhaps, before the end, there will be another.

Lenny	Slothrop	Surely I hallucinate,” and other such eager junior sidekick talk. “You ought to have a PX card.” A sales pitch. “Right now I can’t afford a ration stamp for an ant’s jockstrap,” replies [MASK], forthrightly.

Doctor	Spontoon	The medicos share a chuckle, full of that British Weltschmerz that looks so uncomfortable on the faces of the afflicted. “See here, then, [MASK], you’d rather assist me, is that it?” “Oh, either way you know.

Johnny	Bodine	“[MASK], didn’t you desert? That’s a death-sentence, isn’t it?” “Shit, I can square that. But I’m only a cog. Don’t go thinking I know everything. All I know is my trade.

Scout	Tantivy	Keep me posted. Perhaps tomorrow I’ll have an adventure or two to tell you about, for a change. And if you need help,” teeth flashing, face reddening a bit, “well, I’ll help you.” “Thanks, [MASK].”

Quentin	Muffage	“I can’t think why he asked us” [MASK] stroking his full Imperial (a gesture that manages only to look compulsive), speaking in a voice perhaps too melodious for a man of his mass, “he must know I haven’t done one of these since ’27.”

Tom	Mouth	.. . piano can be heard in behind this, here [MASK] keeps goin’, nobody listenin’, Gabbin’ at a terrible pace— Aw, you’re so sly, but I wave good-by, With a shit-eatin’ grin on m’face!

Truth	Ilse	He was not looking for [MASK], or not exactly. He may have felt that he ought to look, finally. He was not prepared. He did not know. Had the data, yes, but did not know, with senses or heart. . . .

Jim	Slothrop	“I’m sorry I left you alone.” She starts to cry. And cries all day. [MASK] falls asleep, keeps drifting up to her sobs, and to feel her, always in touch, some part of her, some part of him. ...

Winston	Dick	Sparse but loud. Phrases like “[MASK], you character!” and “Listen to him,” can also be made out. “I have a fantasy about how I’ll die. I suppose you’re on their payroll, but that’s all right.

Frost Giants	Christian	they hover in clouds above the vineyards, holy beings of ice, ready with a breath, an intention, to ruin the year with frost and cold. In certain years, especially War years, they are short on charity, peevish, smug in their power: not quite saintly or even [MASK].

John	Pirate	But you and I are employees, remember. ...” After that first surge of interest, the number of clients assigned to [MASK] tapered off some. At the moment he carries what he feels is a comfortable case load. But it’s not what he really wants.

Houdini	Glamour	Music strikes up inside and obliterates the sound. An entertainment. No wonder he got in so easy. Are they expecting this magician, this late guest? [MASK], fame. He could run in and throw himself at somebody’s feet, beg for amnesty.

Tobias	Slothrop	First you have to get into the tree, then you can climb it easy as a ladder. Once inside, surrounded by pungent leaflight, [MASK] can’t see farther than a couple of limbs. The tree is shaking though, so he reckons that that thief is in here someplace.

Daisy	Roger	She saw his loneliness: in his face, between his red nail-bitten hands. . . . “Well, it isn’t fair.” “It’s eminently fair,” [MASK] now cynical, looking very young, she thinks. “Everyone’s equal.

Erdschweinhohl	Enzian	Can his name, can “[MASK]” break their power? Can his name prevail? The Erdschweinhohl e is in one of the worst traps of all, a dialectic of word made flesh, flesh moving toward something else. . . .

Xavier	Mexico	Even [MASK] thinks . . . oh, the usual. Precognition. Psychokinesis. They have their own problems, that lot.... But suppose you had the chance to study a truly classical case of. . . some pathology, a perfect mechanism. . . .”

Shark	Ilse	She had never seen him still, horizontal, with his eyes shut. . . . He drifted toward sleep. [MASK] leaned over and bit him in the leg, as she bit crusts of bread, cigarettes, shoes, anything that might be food.

Angel	Tchitcherine	One is to examine the recently dead. After the last mourner has gone, angels come to the grave and interrogate the dead one in his faith. . . . There is another figure now, at the edge of the room. She is [MASK]’s age, and in uniform.

Giant	Slothrop	About then the point of the tree cracks through, and with a great rustle and whoosh, a whirl of dark branches and needles breaking him up into a few thousand sharp falling pieces, down topples [MASK], bouncing from limb to limb, trying to hold the purple sheet over his head for a parachute.

Marlow	Slothrop	The carpets are dusty, the place smells of alcohol and bleach. Sailors and girls come ambling through, together and separate, as [MASK] paranoids from door to door looking for one that might have something to tell him.

cannon	Slothrop	Half a dozen Ordnance people, juiced and roaring happily, grab for [MASK]. After a lot of twisting and shoving, the foot is freed from its wire loop. The hoist whines back the way it came, to its prankish operator and the next fool he can talk into riding it.

Spring	March	The storks are home, and the first violets have appeared. At “The White Visitation,” days along the chalk piece of seacoast now are fine and clear. The office girls are bundling into fewer sweaters, and breasts peaking through into visibility again. [MASK] has come in like a lamb.

Cinderella	Schlepzig	The guy who made it probably remembered [MASK] from one of his movies.” “Random.” A tragic, actressy smile, beginnings of a double chin, one knee drawn up as far as these leg irons will let her. “Another fairytale word.

Balloon	Slothrop	I’ve done this trip hundreds of times. Nobody bothers a balloon.” He takes [MASK] out in back of the house, and here in the middle of a sloping green field is a wicker gondola beside a great heap of bright yellow and scarlet silk.

Jetty	Gerda	Or, if you can tear yourself away from [MASK] and her Fin- Boa, here’s a thought—find a non-dimensional coefficient for yourself. This is a wind-tunnel you’re in, remember? You’re an aerodynamics man.

Daisy	Katje	Late in October, not far from this estate, one fell back and exploded, killing 12 of the ground crew, breaking windows for hundreds of meters all around, including the west window of the drawingroom where [MASK] first saw her golden game-brother.

John	Gottfried	(But he will.) “You’re going to survive me,” he whispers. [MASK] kneels at his feet, wearing the dog collar. Both are in army clothes. It’s a long time since either of them dressed as a woman.

Dwight	Tyrone	But she’s heard him, and opens with a dimpled, chiding smile for being so wet. “[MASK], I missed you.” He shrugs, convulsive, helpless, showering both of them. “It’s the only place I knew to come.”

Jane	Slothrop	. especially at night—” “Easy.” He moves to put as much of their bodies in touch as he can. He holds her. The tremor is strong, and maybe uncalmable: after a while [MASK] has started to tremble too, in phase.

Holden	Slothrop	[MASK] tags along, in his Rocketman turnout, feeling burdened. The Sprudelhof is bounded on one side by a sand-colored arcade: sand columns and brown shadows. A strip just in front is planted to cypresses.

Snowden	Spectro	One of the things [MASK] said that night—surely it was that night—was, “I only wonder if you’d feel the same way without all those dogs about. If your subjects all along had been human.”

Him	Vaslav	“In the War.” “Oh, [MASK].” “You wanted to hear what was troubling me.” “But don’t you see how they’ll take that? Come, bring it all the way out.

Fritz	Bodine	On certain days the wind brings aspirin-dust from he Bayer factory. The people inhale it, and grow more tranquil. They both feel her absence. [MASK] finds presently that his characteristic gross laugh, hyeugh, hyeugh, has grown more German, tjachz, tjachz.

Tom	Slothrop	[MASK] squats down and starts scooping up dirt with his hands. Inside it is some do. Girls are singing “Don’t Sit Under the Apple Tree,” and if it ain’t the Andrews Sisters it may as well be.

Sheldrake	Pointsman	“I meant flying outward?” He means alone and forever separate: [MASK] knows what he means. So, by surprise, something in him is touched. He feels the Christmas snow now at crevices of his boots, the bitter cold trying to get in.

Mother	Pokier	It seemed she’d grown a foot taller. But at that age, they shoot up overnight, don’t they? If it was “that age. . . Even as [MASK] embraced her, the perverse whispering began. Is it the same one?

Huckleberry	Slothrop	Ask me anything, kraut.” It is exactly the kind of blanket offer that’s always getting [MASK] in trouble. “Why do you speak of certain reversals—machinery connected wrong, for instance, as being ‘ass backwards’? I can’t understand that.

Wind	Trainsmoke	[MASK] blows in a partly opened window. One wall of the room, though blank, has been eroded at, over years, by shadows of operatives, as certain mirrors in public eating-places have been by the images of customers: a surface gathering character, like an old face. . . .

Captain	Slothrop	They find themselves now leaping toward the side of a half-sunken merchantman: black concave iron splashed with red-lead, each crusted rivet and pitted plate closing in, looming over— The woman is clearly unbalanced. [MASK] shuts his eyes and hangs on to a chorus girl.

Karen	Katje	He is a lion, this man, ego-mad—but despite everything, [MASK] likes him. “But if he were still alive—” “No way to know. I have letters he wrote after he left your city. He was changing.

Purpurstoff	Kerb	All I know is it brought disaster down on the cocaine market, [MASK]” “How’s that?” “Something in that rocket needed potassium permanganate, right?” “Turbopump.” “Well, without that Purpurstoff you can’t deal cocaine honestly.

Darrell	Plechazunga	The first billy-clubs catch him in the straw padding over his stomach, and don’t feel like much. Civilians are going down right and left, but [MASK]’s holding his own. Has the morning been only a dress rehearsal?

Dionna	Roger	He was [MASK]’s friend, he wasn’t playing or undermining, didn’t know the first thing, she guessed, about such dancing-shoe wars—and anyway didn’t have to, because she was already, terrible flirt . . .

Drood	Pointsman	That is to say, [MASK] avoids the matter—as reflexively as he would any nightmare. Should this one turn out not to be a fantasy but real, well. . . “The data, so far, are incomplete.”

Margaret	Slothrop	to perfect methods of immobility? But they’re coming, house to house, looking for their deserter, and it’s [MASK] who has to go, she who has to stay. In the streets loudspeakers, buzzing metal throats, are proclaiming an early curfew tonight.

Margaret	Gerhardt	[MASK] in those days was still all for exaggerated lighting.” Silver-gray collects in the fine wrinkles of her gloves as she dusts off the rack, and lies down on it. “Like this,” raising her arms, insisting he fasten the tin manacles to her wrists and ankles.

Fiona	Ilse	Among all there was to choose from, Wheel, myths, jungle animals, clowns, [MASK] found her way to the Antarctic Panorama. Two or three boys hardly older than she wandered through the imitation wilderness, bundled up in sealskins, constructing cairns and planting flags in the August humidity.

Gatsby	Policy	[MASK]. Signs of arrival do not interest him, nor even signs of departure. ... As the boat’s engine goes full ahead, their own wake goes lifting, pink with sunset, to obscure the white Casino on shore.

Fate	Goebbels	Lucky. The brimming voices recede, the joke clarifies, he is only back with [MASK] and the man’s inability to let a good thing be. But it had taken an effort to walk around and look at that other wall. Anything could’ve been back there.

Sherlock	Geli	Oh, just wandering about you know, looking for a bit of the odd, what we call “human interest,” fascinating of course, we’re always interested in what you chaps are up to. . . . [MASK] snickering in the darkness.

Alien	Blicero	Lights he had studied so well as one of you, position and movement, now gathered there at the opposite end, all in dance . . . irrelevant dance. None of [MASK]’s traditional progress, no something new . . . alien. . . .

Anna	Andreas	All that’s not bad enough, no, now she must also endure blackness. Her ignorance of it must see her through. With [MASK] she is charming, she radiates that sensuality peculiar to women who are concerned with an absent lover’s safety.

Meier	Wimpe	[MASK] was a Verbindungsmann in the classic style, with a streak of unhealthy enthusiasm: charming, handsome in a way that came at you in shelves or terraces of strength: amiable gray eyes, vertical granite nose, mouth that never quivered, chin incapable of fantasies . . .

Tommy	Christian	His meekness isn’t all politics, either. He can feel enough of the bone truth in what [MASK] said—maybe not all of it, not all at once, but enough. “You just connected. Can we go after her, now?”

Scarlett	Ev’ryone	Who knows, how many friends, we’ve left, to cry alone? We have a moment together, We’ll hum this tune for a day . . . [MASK]’s dancing, in twi-light, Dancing the bad dream a-way.. . .

Jim	Slothrop	“I hope you can.” “Hush. Come here. You can’t go out with nothing on your feet. I’ll give you a pair of his old boots and tell you all his secrets.” “Secrets?” Look out, [MASK].

Tom	Sigmund	Some of her elan, her resilience, go away. She bites a fingernail. “Yes, there were rumors. [MASK], before he vanished, leaked just enough to titillate people, but never got specific. That was his style.

Dr.	Spontoon	“I assisted at a few whilst I was interning,” [MASK] recalls. “That was during the great vogue they had at mental institutions, you know.” “I can name you a few National Institutions where it’s still in vogue.”

George	Pointsman	It was [MASK]’s plan today not to talk shop, but to let the conversation flow more or less organically. Wait for others to betray themselves. But there is shyness, or constraint, among them all. Talk is minimal.

Johnny	Leni	They were athletic, brainless men without vision, without imagination. But they had power, and it was hard for him not to think of them as superior, even while holding them in a certain contempt. But [MASK] was wrong: no one was using him.

AirraidWarden	Blicero	[MASK] orders everyone down into the shelter, a cellarful of gin in brown crocks, open-slat crates of anemone bulbs. The slut has put his battery in the British crosshairs, the raid can come at any moment! Everybody sits around drinking oude genever and peeling cheeses.

Wendigo	Katje	.. . Signs of [MASK], and doubles too. One night he sat in a children’s play house on an abandoned estate, feeding a fire from the hair of a blonde doll with lapis lazuli eyes. He kept those eyes.

Jones	Slothrop	Still, he doesn’t pose as much of a problem as—” He peers at [MASK]. “Hmm. Are you really a war correspondent?” “No.” “A free agent, I’d guess.”

LadyMacbeth	Luba	Hardly ever a smile. Bones in her face strongly curved and welded. Her aura is chalkdust, laundry soap, sweat. With desperate [MASK] about the edges, always, of her room, at her window, a pretty hawk.

Drover	Jamf	it is the kind Dog, the Dog no man ever conditioned, who is there for us at beginnings and ends, and journeys we have to take, helpless, but not quite unwilling. ... The pleats in [MASK]’s suit go weaving away like iris leaves in a backyard wind.

Hamlet	Tchitcherine	How could everything you know, all you’ve seen and touched of it, be fed by a he?” “But hfe after death . . .” “There is no life after death.” [MASK] means he’s had to fight to believe in his mortality.

Macomber	Whoever	[MASK] carried on the real business of the town—it could not have been children—they were well hidden. A late summer, a late, retrospective blooming.... Birds flew everywhere, the sea warmed, the sun shone on into the evenings.

Mother	Narrisch	Ha!” sez [MASK]. “I’ll lie to at the northeast corner,” this madmother continues, “in the channel between the little island and that triangular part that’s built up on the foreshore.” “Test Stand X.” “Catchy name.

Maude	Pop	can’t we be reasonable . . .”). Any wonder it’s hard to feel much confidence in these idiots as they go up against Pernicious [MASK] each day? There’s no real direction here, neither lines of power nor cooperation.

Thing	Pointsman	But the poor lost flimsy thing . . . waiting in the night and rain for its owner, for its room to reassemble round it.. . The night, full of fine rain, smells like a wet dog. [MASK] seems to’ve been away for a bit.

Blanche	Roger	Her cigarettes are on the parlor floor, left among pillows in front of the fire. [MASK]’s clothing is scattered all about. Puffing on a cigarette, squinting with one eye for the smoke, she tidies up, folding his trousers, hanging up his shirt.

Hannah	Pokier	[MASK] forgot his troubles and held her to his heart for a long time, without speaking. . . . But that night in the cubicle, only breathing—no moon-wishes this year—from her cot, he was awake wondering, one daughter one impostor?

Daisy	Nalline	[MASK], the reflection from her Gold Star brightening her chins like a buttercup, smirks by the window and won’t answer. . . . A terrible time. Hallucinating Rolls Royces and bootheels in the night, coming to get him.

Jem	Papi	She came over to take off his shoes. “[MASK],” gravely unlacing, “may I sleep next to you tonight?” One of her hands had come lightly to rest on the beginning of his bare calf. Their eyes met for half a second.

Death	Pokier	The fear of extinction named [MASK] knew it was the Rocket, beckoning him in. If he also knew that in something like this extinction he could be free of his loneliness and his failure, still he wasn’t quite convinced. ...

Francisco	Transformers	[MASK] buzz through the spring morning. Someplace chains rattle and a tailgate drops. Between ruts, high places, ridges of mud are beginning to dry out in the sun, to lighten and crumble. Nearby the loud wake-up yawn and stretch of a train whistle cuts loose.

Midget	Rathbone	“[MASK]: You old rascal. “They laugh, draw their guns, and exchange a few playful shots. The Midget is rushing back and forth, furious, emitting high-pitched German-accented Westernisms like ‘This town ain’t big enough for both of us!’

Alan	Tchitcherine	A middle-aged smile full of Weltschmerz. “Trade-off, [MASK],” whispers the salesman. “A question of balancing priorities. Research people come cheap enough, and even an IG may be allowed to dream, to hope against hope. .. .

Mr. Skeffington	Tantivy	[MASK], who is feigning a relaxed air, breaks off humming “You Can Do a Lot of Things at the Sea-side That You Can’t Do in Town” to inquire, “Ah, yes, do you really think so?”

Tom	Faces	They pass in fine, out of the main station, out of downtown, and begin pushing into older and more desolate parts of the city. Is this the way out? [MASK] turn to the windows, but no one dares ask, not out loud.

Pi	Lord	“Little sigma, times P of s-over-little-sigma, equals one over the square root of two pi, times e to the minus s squared over two little-sigma squared.” “Good [MASK].”

Duke	Andreas	[MASK] is calling, “All decoys muster by the cook wagon,” fishing in his pockets for the list he keeps. The decoy trek will move on northward, no violent shift in direction—the rest will angle east, back toward the Russian Army.

Tommy	Enzian	Saves trouble later if you can get the Texts straight soon as they’re spoken. “Thank you,” sez Oberst [MASK]. A hundred meters away, huddled into another white paraboloid, watching them, is a fat kid in a gray tanker jacket.

Narrator	Pirate	icefields below and a cold smear of sun. . . . What is it? Nothing like this ever happens. But [MASK] knows it, after all. He has seen it in a film, just in the last fortnight.. . it’s a vapor trail.

Astronaut	Slothrop	Like a rocket whose valves, under remote control, open and close at prearranged moments, [MASK], at a certain level of his re-entry into sleep, stops breathing through his nose and commences breathing through his mouth.

Protagonist	Slothrop	Pilgrims along the roads of miracle, every bit and piece a sacred relic, every scrap of manual a verse of Scripture. But the ordinary hardware doesn’t interest [MASK]. He is holding out, saving himself for something absolutely unique. Is it the Black-rocket?

Psi	Roger	tion in the textbooks predicts. As the data keep coming in, [MASK] looks more and more like a prophet. Psi Section people stare after him in the hallways. It’s not precognition, he wants to make an announcement in the cafeteria or something . . .

Hermann	Tantivy	[MASK] picks up the basket. “Right.” The girls are dancers. The manager of the Casino Hermann Goe- ring, one Cesar Flebotomo, brought in a whole chorus-line soon as the liberators arrived, though he hasn’t yet found time to change the place’s occupation name.

Goebbels	Enzian	Ha! That did it. Like a salute, a boot-click, [MASK]’s face snaps into perfect neutrality. “You would oblige me,” he begins, then settles for changing the subject. “You were down in the Mittelwerke.

Daisy	Slothrop	“Bastard,” hitting him with the Seltzer again. Settling feathers cling to their skins as they chase around the bedroom, her dappled body always retreating, often in this light, even at close range, impossible to see. [MASK] keeps falling over the furniture.

Schultz	Weissmann	WLat the 175s heard from their real SS guards there was enough to elevate [MASK] on the spot—they, his own brother- elite, didn't know what this man was up to. When prisoners came in earshot, the guards stopped whispering.

T.S. Eliot	Roger	“He’s run down the street,” she mentions, helping them out of the net. “It’s all right,” the doctor sighs. “It doesn’t make any difference.” “Ah but the evening’s young,” from [MASK].

Slothrop	PISCES	tobacco and “gage” smoke richly blended, eyereddening and tart as wine, yowzah gwine smoke a little ob dis hyah sheeit gib de wrinkles in mah brain a process! straighten ’em all raht out, sho nuf! [MASK]: That was “sho nuf,” Slothrop?

Blobadjians	Arabists	. . “In here, Blobadjian-—quickly.” Close behind, [MASK] are ululating, shrill, merciless, among the red-orange stars over the crowds of derricks. Slam. The last hatch is dogged. “Wait—what is this?” “Come.

Mother	Slothrop	They lie behind a sperm-yellowed bedsheet tacked to the ceiling, very close on a narrow bed with lacquered posts. Her mother is carving turnips in the kitchen. Their two hearts pound, his for his danger, hers for [MASK].

Ellie	Corpse	She can hardly hear her tired whispering. [MASK] answers: “We live very far beneath the black mud. Days of traveling.” Though she couldn’t move its limbs easily as a doll’s, she could make it say and think exactly what she wished.

Caradog	Slothrop	There are what sound like a hundred—but most likely only two— Welshmen singing, tenor from the south and bass from the north of the country, you see, so that all conversation sub rosa or not is effectively drowned out. Exactly what [MASK] wants.

Montana	Slothrop	No more or less real than all these others so private, silent, and lost to History. [MASK], though he doesn’t know it yet, is as properly constituted a state as any other in the Zone these days. Not paranoia. Just how it is.

you	Mexico	“I don’t want to get into a religious argument with you,” absence of sleep has [MASK] more cranky today than usual, “but I wonder if you people aren’t a bit too—well, strong, on the virtues of analysis.

