Johnny	Ratan	‘They dared not cut any money for damaged cloth out of my pay,’ [MASK] said. ‘You ought to be manly enough to stand up for yourself. Or you should come with me and join the Union. You are all so lethargic.’

Jay	Munoo	it is late. I will follow you later.’ [MASK] felt that he would die with the misery of not knowing what he wanted. That he wanted something, he knew. But what, he did not know. He rose.

Jim	Hari	He felt an irresistible impulse to strip naked and jump into the water. ‘Shall we have a bath here?’ he said to [MASK] impetuously, standing by the pool and overcoming the stink that oozed from it with his naive enthusiasm.

Elephant	Munoo	And here is some food which I have brought for you,’ came the elephant driver’s voice. [MASK] jumped down from the open carriage and followed his patron into a truck where hundreds of bamboo poles lay stacked. ‘Here’s the food,’ said the driver.

Holden	Munoo	The sharp, cool, sweetish taste of the soda water tingled in [MASK]’s mouth and brought tears of acid into his eyes. He would have liked to have sipped it slowly and enjoyed the full flavour of the drink in comfort.

Sebastian	Munoo	[MASK] almost dropped his food in his effort to get away from the crowd. But he scraped through by exercising a queer strength which the mere sight of food seemed to put into him. He crossed the courtyard to the edge of a fountain playing before the summer-house of a garden.

Tom	Munoo	‘What is it?’ he asked. ‘The creditors are shouting outside,’ [MASK] said, with an effort. ‘They want you.’ He got up at once and came to the window overlooking the gully. He was pale and his limbs shivered slightly.

Sam	Mohan	Nothing seemed to exist, therefore, outside himself, apart from the memories of his wanderings. [MASK] was a consolation because he came and sat on his bed and pressed his head in the evening. But it rained and the clouds hovered menacingly over the adjacent hills.

Jodhpur	Munoo	It was only a white horse galloping into the arena. He applied his eyes and saw the horse enter the ring, followed by a young man who wore what seemed to [MASK] curiously tight angrezi trousers and a long cloak of silver sequins.

Marlow	Munoo	For the most part men realize themselves through the force of external necessity, in the varied succession of irrelevant and unconnected circumstances. [MASK] soon got used to life in this primitive factory. It was a dark, evil life.

Tom	Lallaji	Come and pay us our money.’ ‘Oh, please forgive me, [MASK]. I will pay every one of you. I will pay every penny that I owe you, even though I may die in doing so. But please don’t abuse me.’

Maharajah	Munoo	‘I want to see the tamasha,’ he said to the elephant driver, currying favour with a humble smile, when the man had brought the grass. ‘Go away! Go away!’ the driver said casually. ‘Look,’ [MASK] insisted, T did that work for you.’

Wilhelm	Prabha	‘You can say what you like,’ said [MASK] in a desperate effort to lose all his pride and dignity in order to win the man back to an ordinary business connection and friendliness, though all trust between them, he knew, had been irrevocably lost.

Tom	Ganpat	I wish they knew that I have made friends and am going to get a job tomorrow. They both said I was a brave lad. Yes, I can do things. But what could I do if all men were like [MASK] or the policeman, or the man in the food shop today.

Karl	Munoo	[MASK] recalled that he had felt somewhat the same feeling in the dark sheds of the weavers in his village, and the black cavern of the oil-makers, where the bullock, blinded by leather goggles and a rag, went round and round and round, harnessed to the shaft.

Tom	Sauda	no, there is no question of that,’ said [MASK], with a flourish of his hand. ‘Do not all the insults you people suffer rouse you from the apathy to which you have succumbed? Does not all the misery, all the degradation you suffer rouse you to indignation?

Huckleberry	Munoo	[MASK] did not know what the yogi intended, but he knew that he himself was out for adventure. And the fruit he held smelt sweet and luscious. And his mouth watered at the sight of the grapes, pomegranates, copper-coloured bananas and ripe mangoes.

John	Munoo	I might still be in the train, hungry and lost.’ He rushed, as he had been lagging behind his master, and caught hold of his finger. * 'Wake up, ohe [MASK]! Wake up!'

Tommy	Tulsi	But, of course, the parting must be brushed away as soon as the goat-face arrived in the factory, for one day he had beaten [MASK] for pretending to be like him when he saw the boy parting his hair.

Lalla	Munoo	The caprice of any merchant boy decided their lot, or the shrewdness of the Lalla who could make them accept less wages for more work. Sometimes, perhaps, a subtle trick could secure a coolie a job. Certainly it was cunning which secured [MASK] most of the work he got.

McKinley	Munoo	The President, the President; come on. President!’ His face flushed with the dramatic flourish with which he ended up. ‘Come on. President!’ [MASK] shouted, taking the cue from his hero. ‘Come on. President!’ the cry.

Mendes	Munoo	‘Come to our chawl,’ said the wrestler, thumping [MASK] on the shoulder with a bonhomie which seemed to become more dangerous. ‘Come, come,’ he bawled out, ‘come, you seducers of your daughters, you wretches, come, I know you have nowhere to go.’

He	Munoo	‘No, we are saying it for your good,’ said the head coolie. ‘You should leave her service. You have to attend on her and also drive the rickshaw.’ [MASK] kept silent. ‘Why can’t he become a rickshaw coolie?’

Jesus	Munoo	And then, he twisted the embarrassing situation with mild good humour, saying: ‘Look, I have brought you a handsome young gallant.’ She advanced towards [MASK] and, laying her hand on his head, said: ‘The Son of God himself in beauty!

Neighbor	Munoo	‘I am afraid it is the only tap for the entire block of this house. You will have to wait your turn.’ [MASK] dared not cross the mud into which the water of the pump had seeped deeply for yards.

Kurtz	Munoo	This, his instincts told him, was the slope of his objective, for there the din of the shooting seemed to have receded. The sun was blazing and there was very little shade on the way. [MASK] sweated. He felt faint with fatigue and hunger.

Sahib	Sauda	Would you let anyone throw away the turbans off your head?’ ‘No,’ replied the coolie. ‘But then where is your idea of izzat gone?’ asked [MASK]. ‘Where is your sense of dignity? Where is your manhood?’

Narrator	Munoo	The crows wheeled over the pond in great profusion, pecking at the sores of the cows and bullocks Who either sat in the water or grazed on the grass by the festering marshes around the water. [MASK] was fascinated by the diving antics of the little urchins who ran about.

Bhikhu	Munoo	shouted a man who held a pan by a string handle as he scurried to and fro, accompanied by an attendant with a basket. [MASK] saw young mendicants and paupers running towards him leaving the old ascetics hobbling along behind, and elbowing each other in their onrush.

Darry	Munoo	[MASK] smiled at this, but his smile seemed to say: ‘If it wasn’t my last day here, I would give you such a sock on the jaw that you would never dare to aspire to the leadership of the boys.’

Tessie	Bibiji	He awakened from his torpor and smiled. [MASK] sprang from her seat near the kitchen and gave him a sharp, clean slap on the cheek. ‘You spoiler of our salt!’ she raved. ‘You have brought bad luck to our house! You beast!

FarmerHodges	Mohan	‘We are celebrating the rains.’ ‘Don’t you take any notice of them,’ said [MASK]. ‘They have come here season after season, and they don’t know any of their festivals either, and yet they preen themselves on their experience.

Sage	Mohan	‘What shall I do, then?’ the man continued. ‘Go back to your land, man,’ said [MASK]. ‘That is my advice to you. Go and work on your land.’ ‘My land is mortgaged already,’ said the coolie.

Danny	Ratan	‘What did you say, easy?’ called [MASK] sarcastically. ‘Six to six. Seven days a week. Those were our working days, before ,m open furnace, where the molten steel boiled and bubbled like water in a saucepan.

Tom	Munoo	He talks bad things and you like listening to him! Now enjoy the fruits of your friendship with such as he!’ ‘It is nothing! It is nothing! It is only a small bruise!’ [MASK] said, capering away. ‘Look at him!

Tom	Munoo	So he went off reconnoitring to see if there was a loophole through which they could escape to the train. A ticket-collector with a white uniform adorned with nickel buttons was proudly walking about on the look-out for bribes. He spotted [MASK] and read the anxiety in his eyes.

Quashey	Prabha	The mistress will be thinking of us. She might be crying. Why did we come away? We should have stayed and been near the master and mistress. Supposing he should die.’ The picture of [MASK] lying dead was something he did not want to contemplate.

Dracula	Munoo	His skin must be stricken with leprosy, [MASK] thought, because it had curious white patches over the brown surface. And there was an absent air about his whole form, rudely clothed in a homespun tunic and loincloth, which proclaimed the simpleton, the idiot.

Tom	Munoo	‘Didn’t you touch anything else?’ ‘No,’ [MASK] lied, exasperated and seeking to end this controversy, though he knew he had brushed his hands on the mat while he was dancing the monkey dance, and the mattress being used to dusty feet was certainly unclean.

Taxi	Mohan	‘I want to live here, work, smoke the hookah, play cards now and then, and never be too tired to pick up another fare if it comes my way.’ ‘Yes, you fool,’ burst out [MASK].

Gatsby	Prabha	‘And outlived my shame, the bankrupt’s shame!’ [MASK] added with a sneer of mockery to torture himself, so completely had he accepted all business ideals and so convinced was he of having violated the laws of society, so slavishly humble in spite of the hard knocks he had received.

Market	Munoo	[MASK] felt very alone. Then he became aware of a hot blast of air which came loaded with the sickly, foetid odour of ghee, sandailwood, urine, sour milk, fish and decaying fruit. He looked in the direction from which the smell oozed.

Teddy	Sheila	All the little girls screamed with laughter. [MASK] pulled hard at his ear and he turned round and sprang upon her, snarling and gnashing his teeth as if he were a real monkey. Before he knew what he had done he had bitten her on the cheek.

Tommy	Munoo	[MASK] stood dumb before the constable, his heart beating violently. ‘Answer me, you swine, where is your licence?’ said the constable, raising his voice from its first deliberation to a sudden hysterical pitch and waving his baton.

Dexter	Munoo	To get eight hours sleep it was necessary to go to bed immediately. It was not hard to go to sleep. These men did not need veronal for their insomnia. The twelve-hour day was a sedative. But a boy like [MASK] did not want to get to sleep at nine.

Mrs.	Bhagu	‘He seems to be very proud of his strength. I know where he gets his power. He steals money from his mistress’s allowances for shopping. I saw him eating sweets in the shop of [MASK] the other day.’

Jem	Lakshami	He felt dizzy and faint and struggled to breathe in the suffocating atmosphere that enveloped him. He smiled and sank on to the ground to save himself from swooning. [MASK], who had been distributing stale sweetbread from the trunk, rushed to his side.

Hank	Munoo	It was very hot.' ‘I would like to go to an iron factory, though,’ [MASK] said eagerly. ‘Do they make girders there, like those solid steel girders that lie by the railway? It must be exciting to be near the furnaces.

Rahim	Munoo	‘Ohe, leave it, you seducer of your sister,’ said a middle-aged coolie, paternally. ‘You will kill yourself. You should go and lift small weights in the vegetable market.’ But [MASK] was intent on earning a living for himself, for his master and his mistress.

Antonchin	Varma	‘Don’t bark, you dirty hill man,’ said [MASK], with a frown on his coarse, bestial face, as he swaggered beneath the cloak of his saintliness and strength. ‘How does your mistress treat you now?

Adam	Ratan	He must be very angry with you that he has passed the order about work for all of us.’ ‘It isn’t his anger with me, you idiot, but the big Sahib’s greed that is responsible for the order,’ said [MASK].

Mac	Munoo	[MASK] was only too willing to oblige, for he knew that if he came back with the grass-cutter he would get free access to the circus ground, where people were not admitted without a pass. He ran for the grass-cutter.

Tom	Ratan	Don’t be down-hearted.’ ‘I had hoped to get a job somewhere else,’ said [MASK], ‘and thought that if I came to you it would be known all over the mill world and that would jeopardize my chances.’

Tom	Munoo	[MASK] felt wild with rage, but tried to still hismind by acknowledging the superiority of the clean-clothed rich people, whom he had always been told to respect. Feeling that all the men in the place were staring at him, he looked away into the street through the glass window.

Dillon	Shibu	‘Leave that talk now,’ said [MASK], who, once assured of the reduction in his rent because another family was going to share the room, was all generosity. ‘Now, just taste the pancakes that my wife has been cooking.

Estella	Munoo	Where have you gone, you ominous orphan? Come back and begone!’ The piercing soprano resounded through the valley and fell on [MASK]’s ears with the dreadening effect of all its bitter content. He heard but he did not answer.

Agarwal	Prabha	I forgot to ask you what you had collected.’ ‘About fifty rupees,’ murmured the goat-face sullenly, bending his head down. ‘Fifty rupees!’ exclaimed [MASK]. ‘But we were owed seven hundred to two thousand!’

Tom	Varma	With a ferocity to which the double danger in front of him seemed to add a wild fire, he fell upon [MASK] and, catching hold of him by the waist, lifted him over his shoulders. Then he carried him about twenty yards away from the pump and flung him guardedly on to the earth.

Lin	Munoo	All the coolies were getting up, draining the sweat off their faces with their hands. [MASK] got up and, walking towards the door for air, began to take off his shirt by crossing his arms and lifting the lapels over his head.

Jem	Prem	‘You spoiler of our salt!’ she raved. ‘You have brought bad luck to our house! You beast! And I have tried hard to correct you ‘Oh, leave him alone,’ said [MASK]. ‘It is not his fault.’

Rajas	Bibiji	On his return [MASK] gave him two chapatis and a spoonful of lentils and vegetables. He had to eat on his hands, being considered too low in status to be allowed to eat off the utensils. The insult stung him. He could hardly swallow his food.

Johnny	Prabha	You have had me beaten for being mild to you. Take this, you dog!’ And he lashed [MASK] again, sharp, sharp, till the swish of the glistening cane was all that occupied the air.

""	Bibiji	shouted [MASK] shrilly. ‘Don’t eat my head! And don’t mention my name in vain! I am getting tea ready! And you, you little wretch, your uncle may have become a Sahib by going to learn medicine at college.

Marlow	Munoo	[MASK] stared at his surroundings, hot and perspiring. The black, expressionless faces of the coolies seemed impenetrable. He lifted his eyes to the horizontal, circular, cylindrical, octagonal, diagonal shapes of the different parts of the machine. The first impact was fascinating.

Alexander	Vay	‘[MASK], you eater of your masters! May you die! May the vessel of your life never float in the sea of existence!’ the tornado of abuse burst. ‘May you never rest in peace, neither you, nor your antecedents!

Tom	Ganpat	There was a tense silence between the two men as they sat on the platform. ‘I didn’t think you would insult me like this,’ said [MASK], in an attempt to bully his partner. But his face paled with a suggestion of guilt.

Macbeth	Ganpat	[MASK] shouted a last speech as he turned round with one foot outside the door and one foot in. ‘Stop howling, you dog, and don't follow me. I tell you I have made up my mind. I am through with such scum as you.

Ram	Munoo	Go now, go and eat rice and dal with your uncle!’ [MASK] sneaked away at the barest mention of the word go. As he descended the hill, memories of the unpleasantnesses he had suffered in that house, the humiliations he had endured, assailed him.

Blanche	Ganpat	And I am glad you have told me. We will try and raise a loan somewhere to pay off these pro-notes and then everything will be settled.’ ‘You think you are going to suppress me with your meekness and humility,’ cried [MASK].

Tom	Munoo	There is no harm in doing accounts before [MASK]. And the others don’t understand.’ ‘That little wretch doesn’t understand either,’ the goat-face sneered. ‘These schoolboys don’t learn to apply mathematics, they only learn to do sums.

Tom	Munoo	Now [MASK]’s hand revolved the handle a bit too fast. The thread broke and he did not know how to tie the knot. The man on his side called to him, ‘Look! this is the way to tie it.’

Shadows	Satan	And death stalked the earth in the illusory forms of masses of darkness, as in a nightmare, now slow, sinuous and soft, now sudden, like panting hordes rushing through time and space, convulsed, hysterical and fierce, like the hundred forms of [MASK] who hounded men to death.

Mamu	Shambhu	The bearer put the cocks under his left arm, pocketed the sweets, and walked off with a swagger characteristic of the white man’s servant. 'Ohe [MASK]! Do you want money or do you want rice in exchange for the fowls?’ the Sardar asked.

Sisyllus	Bibiji	He wanted to get away from it, and he looked forward to his afternoons off. On the afternoon of the day which happened to be his half-holiday that week, [MASK] saw him sulking about at work in the morning, and she determined not to let him go.

Yogi	Munoo	[MASK] felt he had lost sight of the yogi as he turned sharply by the shops of the flower-sellers at the gate and entered a dark gully. There he saw him beckoning from a window of the first storey of a house which looked down on the crossroads.

Monkey	Lallaji	A contingent of ripe, luscious small mangoes attracted him, and his mouth watered. ‘Ohe, you seducer of your daughter!’ called a shopkeeper from one side. ‘Will you lift a weight for two farthings?’ ‘Yes, [MASK],’ shouted a chorus of five voices.

Jonas	Munoo	Then, as if he had forgotten something, he returned and said to [MASK]: ‘Brother, when you come, bring the mother of my child home with you. She will not know the way on her own.’

maid	Sahib	How difficult he had found things. He had never been taught the first thing about housework. And his mistress had raged all the time. The flaming anger which she had burst into when he dropped the china on the day the [MASK] came.

Catherine	Munoo	‘He objects to my praise of his mistress’ breasts and her —. And she ill-treats him all day. Don’t you think he is in love with her?’ ‘Let me get my water,’ said [MASK], and came up to the pump.

Steve	Munoo	[MASK]’s heart beat wildly at the sight of this fruit, and he waited in suspense for the goat-face to leave the factory, as, indeed, all the workers did during those days, for they were all eager to eat the fruit.

Blanche	Lakshami	When he looked up again, [MASK] was bending over him with a trembling, wild light in her eyes, and a warm flush on her cheeks. He shook his head and bent it low so as to escape the contact which his instincts wanted.

Karna	Prabha	I can see through this saintliness and mealy-mouthedness of yours. You think you are very good, don’t you?’ ‘Oh, don’t talk like that, brother Ganpat,’ said [MASK], aroused for the first time, it isn’t fair.

Heathcliff	Munoo	Her voice rose from the first shock of unpleasantness, through the faint hiss of anger to the mechanical volubility of her curses and mounted to a last note of real despair. [MASK] felt the blood rushing to his face. His brain seemed to be submerged in darkness.

Heathcliff	Munoo	[MASK] had suffered acute pain when the first flush of wild heat had left his body and the bruise called up all the blood in his veins. A fever had possessed him and he wept bitterly and moaned, his moans rising to a screaming crescendo of pain.

Circus	Munoo	They first played with a coloured ball, balancing it on the tips of their extended noses, then aped the trapeze dancers with hesitant movements, which somehow became perfect towards the end and created in [MASK] just the effect they were intended to create. The lion cages were coming in ...

Priest	Prabha	They moved away at last, bending their steps towards the temple lights that adorned the blue-black of the parting hour. [MASK] offered the garland in the shrine to an image which stood swathed in all the magnificence that gold-embroidered clothes and silks and jewels could lend.

Amy	Munoo	‘They have no cattle and no fields here,' said the Chaprasi. pushing his neck back to stiff uprightness. ‘It is only the rustics in the villages who graze cattle and plough the land!’ ‘But how do they get their food, uncle?' [MASK] inquired.

lala	Babu	He was rewarded not only with the sight of an amiable little man who was reciting Punjabi verses such as he had heard the professional clowns recite in his village, but by the far more amazing spectacle of the chota [MASK] soaping his cheeks and rubbing the teeth of a bright steel machine.

Afghans	Hindus	and walked away to where his companions now stood, after having killed as many [MASK] as had not run away. The square was soon deserted, because the Pathans walked away, shouting, stamping, fierce and bloody, and for a moment there was utter silence.

Mowgli	Munoo	The lion cages were coming in ... But [MASK] was disturbed by the elephant driver who was passing. ‘Come, oh boy,.do some work; help me to carry these buckets of water; you have seen enough of the circus now.’

Rick	Munoo	He had said that one had to develop strong ‘wind’, and to learn to handle the rickshaw so as to keep it in balance, that one had to develop a sense of judgement and surefootedness, which is so necessary at turnings and steep gradients. [MASK] had waved this advice aside.

Drake	Tulsi	I shall write to him and tell him I am safe and sound, but that I don’t want to come back.’ ‘Come,’ said [MASK], rolling up a ragged carpet and a dirty shirt around a greasy pillow which made his bedding, and securing the bundle under his arm.

Babu	Ratan	‘Twenty rupees!’ shouted the wrestler, summoning all the power of his colossal frame into a deliberately restrained manner. ‘Not a pice less.' The foreman looked up to [MASK] and blinked to meet the hard glint of the wrestler's flaming eyes.

Stranger	Munoo	Other passengers in the compartment half opened their eyes through the dawn and, dazed with wonder at so uncanny a spectacle, began to ask: ‘Who is it? Where does he come from?’ [MASK] could not speak. He was terror-stricken.

Merchant	Munoo	Tomorrow he will himself come and see you.’ ‘Go, go, you seducer of your daughter, go and get him,’ said a merchant with an enormous turban on his head, muslins on his pot belly, and gold-worked slippers on his feet. [MASK] retreated.

Ahmed	Munoo	From now onwards it was less strenuous for the coolies to pull the vehicle, because the ascent up the Mall is more gradual. And once the vehicle had reached the new post office where the upper English bazaar forks away from the lower Indian bazaar, [MASK] became quite excited about his job.

Ike	Munoo	you ought to be asleep.' 'No. no,’ [MASK] protested. "I am all right.- And then the saliva in his throat choked him and he coughed a harsh, continuous cough which seemed to distress him, till he spat out mouthfuls of blood.

Manager	Little	Good worker, you know, but we can’t have sedition going about.’ ‘Oh, I’ve received an application for his reinstatement from the All-Indian Trade Union Federation this morning. I was going to ask you about him,’ said [MASK].

Jim	Munoo	The train halted only once at dawn, and [MASK]’s slumber was slightly broken by the shouting and stamping of passengers and the rattling of trains on the adjoining platforms. ‘I wonder what station it's,’ he asked himself in his half sleep.

Quasimodo	Piari	‘But you are taking a great deal of trouble. Come and sit down by me for a while.’ ‘May I be your sacrifice,’ said [MASK], coming mockingly and sitting in his lap. ‘I am your servant.’

