Norman	Soaphead	Only the horror of having to go near him had prevented [MASK] from com- pleting his mission. He waited for rage or blinding revulsion to spur him. Living there among his worn things, rising early every morning from dreamless sleeps, he counseled those who sought his advice.

Jim	China	I thought they was some kind of stocking cap. I put it on my head when I dusted. When she saw me, she liked to fell out.” “You must have been one dumb somebody.” [MASK] lit a cigarette and cooled her irons.

Scout	Marie	His strut is a peacock His eye is burning brass His smile is sorghum syrup drippin’ slow-sweet to the last I know a boy who is sky-soft brown [MASK] sat shelling peanuts and popping them into her mouth.

Tom	Johnny	“What’d you do?” “I did him a favor. They wanted to catch this crook, you see. Name of [MASK]. He was as low-down as they come. . . .” “We know that.”

Sodapop	Cholly	I let my hair go back, plaited it up, and settled down to just being ugly. I still went to the pictures, though, but the meanness got worse. I wanted my tooth back. [MASK] poked fun at me, and we started fighting again.

Tom	Cholly	The bus wasn’t leaving for four hours, and the minutes of those hours struggled like gnats on fly paper— dying slow, exhausted with the fight to stay alive. [MASK] was afraid to stir, even to relieve himself. The bus might leave while he was gone.

Mamaine	Polly	Power, praise, and luxury were hers in this household. They even gave her what she had never had—a nickname—[MASK]. It was her pleasure to stand in her kitchen at the end of a day and survey her handiwork.

[Unknown]	Cholly	“No, sir, I’m . . .” [MASK] blinked. He could not remem- ber his mother’s name. Had he ever known it? What could he say? Whose boy was he? He couldn’t say, “I’m your boy.”

Mama	Pauline	She couldn’t get that one thing through her thick head. ‘Are you going to leave him, [MASK]?’ she kept on saying. I thought she’d give me my money if I said 1 would, so I said ‘Yes, ma’am.’

Nature	Velma	Our manhood was defined by acquisitions. Our womanhood by acquiescence. And the smell of your fruit and the labor of your days we abhorred. This morning, before the little black girl came, I cried—for [MASK]. Oh, not aloud.

Scout	Frieda	“Oh.” “You can wait for her. Wanna come up here and wait?” We exchanged glances. I looked back up at the broad cinnamon roads that met in the shadow of her dress. [MASK] said, “No, ma’am.”

God	Soaphead	He sometimes uses me to help people. All I can do is offer myself to Him as the instrument through which he works. If He wants your wish granted, He will do it.” [MASK] walked to the window, his back to the girl.

""	Blue	He stooped to pick it up. Blood red, its planes dull and blunted with sweetness, its edges rigid with juice. Too obvious, almost obscene, in the joy it promised. “Go ’head, [MASK],” the father laughed.

Father	Pecola	And we did not dwell on the fact that the baby’s father was [MASK]’s father too; the process of having a baby by any male was incomprehensible to us—at least she knew her father. We thought only of this overwhelming hatred for the unborn baby.

Neighbors	Breedloves	He taken off.” “County ain’t gone let her keep that baby, is they?” “Don’t know.” “None of them [MASK] seem right anyhow. That boy is off somewhere every minute, and the girl was always foolish.”

Tom	Cholly	Five-fifty for children under twelve.” [MASK] had twelve dollars and four cents. “How old you be?” “Just on twelve, sir, but my mama only give me ten dollars.” “You jest about the biggest twelve I ever seed.”

Tommy	Cholly	“Get on wid it, nigger,” said the flashlight one. “Sir?” said [MASK], trying to find a buttonhole. “I said, get on wid it. An’ make it good, nigger, make it good.”

Tom	Cholly	[MASK] had come home drunk. Unfortunately he had been too drunk to quarrel, so the whole business would have to erupt this morning. Because it had not taken place immediately, the oncoming fight would lack spontaneity; it would be calculated, uninspired, and deadly.

Reality	Pauline	His mouth trembled at the firm sweetness of the flesh. He closed his eyes, letting his fingers dig into her waist. The rigidness of her shocked body, the silence of her stunned throat, was better than [MASK]’s easy laughter had been.

Darlene	Frieda	I had another idea. “We could go up the alley and see what’s in the trash cans.” “Too cold,” said [MASK]. She was bored and irritable. “I know. We could make some fudge.” “You kidding?

Mama	Cholly	“When I first seed [MASK], 1 want you to know it was like all the bits of color from that time down home when all us chil’ren went berry picking after a funeral and I put some in the pocket of my Sunday dress, and they mashed up and stained my hips.

Grandma	Frieda	On the counter near the stove in a silvery pan was a deep-dish berry cobbler. The purple juice bursting here and there through crust. We moved closer. “It’s still hot,” [MASK] said.

Tommy	Cholly	[MASK] was in jail. She came with nothing. No little paper bag with the other dress, or a nightgown, or two pair of whitish cotton bloomers. She just appeared with a white woman and sat down.

June	Cholly	I ’member looking out them front windows just waiting for [MASK] to come home at three o’clock. I didn’t even have a cat to talk In her loneliness, she turned to her husband for reassurance, entertainment, for things to fill the vacant places.

statues	One	[MASK] could not see them and not love them. You who made them must have considered them lovely even as an idea— how much more lovely is the manifestation of that idea. I couldn’t, as you must recall, keep my hands, my mouth, off them.

Prostitute	Cholly	He bent down to toss a bill on the ground, and waited for a throw. When it was gone, he stood up and in a vexed and whiny voice shouted at [MASK], “Tell that bitch she get her money. Now, get the fuck outta my face!”

Tom	Cholly	“I said, get on wid it. An’ make it good, nigger, make it good.” There was no place for [MASK]’s eyes to go. They slid about furtively searching for shelter, while his body remained paralyzed.

Mother	Maureen	“For babies.” [MASK] raised two pencil-stroke eyebrows at the obviousness of the question. “Babies need blood when they are inside you, and if you are having a baby, then you don’t menstrate.

Cinderella	Pauline	Instead of ignoring her infirmity, pretending it was not there, he made it seem like something special and endearing. For the first time [MASK] felt that her bad foot was an asset. And he did touch her, firmly but gently, just as she had dreamed.

FrenchSoldier	Frieda	Did he find out about the Maginot Line?” “No.” “Well, what, then? Come on, [MASK]. How come I can’t know?” “He . . . picked at me.” “Picked at you?

Mother	Maureen	That is where the like-line grows from and pumps the blood to the baby.” “Well, if the belly buttons are to grow like-lines to give the baby blood, and only girls have babies, how come boys have belly buttons?” [MASK] hesitated.

Dusty	Cholly	Only thing I miss sometimes is that rainbow. But like I say, I don’t recollect it much anymore.” SEEFATHERHEISB1GANDSTRONGFATH ERWILLYOUPLAYW1THJANEFATHER 1SSM1L1NGSMILEFATHERSMILESM1LE When [MASK] was four days old, his mother wrapped him in two blankets and one newspaper and placed him on a junk heap by the railroad.

Scarlett	Junior	She kept her head down as she walked. He had seen her many times before, standing alone, always alone, at recess. Nobody ever played with her. Probably, he thought, because she was ugly. Now [MASK] called to her. “Hey!

Gladys	Pauline	The sad thing was that [MASK] did not really care for clothes and makeup. She merely wanted other women to cast favorable glances her way. After several months of doing day work, she took a steady job in the home of a family of slender means and nervous, pretentious ways.

Scout	Frieda	We can’t hang in here all day. Them people be home soon.” She moved toward the door. [MASK] and I dropped down to the ground, looking wildly into each other’s eyes. When the women were some distance away, we went inside.

Della	Pecola	“Yes, ma’am. I do. Lemme take it out. I won’t spill none.” “You bed’ not.” I got to the porch and stood there with the Mason jar of water. [MASK] was crying. “What you crying for?

Meggy	Pauline	When the war ended and the twins were ten years old, they too left school to work. [MASK] was fifteen, still keeping house, but with less enthusiasm. Fantasies about men and love and touching were drawing her mind and hands away from her work.

Daisy	Ffey	Some drops were on the steps. I leaped up. “[MASK]. You cut yourself? Look. It’s all over your dress.” A brownish-red stain discolored the back of her dress. She kept whinnying, standing with her legs far apart.

June	Pauline	[MASK] was leaning idly on the fence, her arms resting on the crossrail between the pickets. She had just put down some biscuit dough and was cleaning the flour from under her nails. Behind her at some distance she heard whistling.

Daisy	Cholly	I mean them. No. No use at all. It’s all over now. Yes. And you don’t have to be afraid of [MASK] coming at you anymore. No. That was horrible, wasn’t it? Yes. The second time too?

Money	Cholly	Taking jobs as a day worker helped with the clothes, and even a few things for the apartment, but it did not help with [MASK]. He was not pleased with her purchases and began to tell her so. Their marriage was shredded with quarrels.

Tommy	Polly	Her hair was corn yellow and bound in a thick ribbon. When she saw us, fear danced across her face for a second. She looked anxiously around the kitchen. “Where’s [MASK]?” she asked. The familiar violence rose in me.

Drake	Pecola	[MASK] insisted. “How come what? How come I ain’t seen a boy since nineteen and twenty-seven? Because they ain’t been no boys since then. That’s when they stopped. Folks started gettin’ born old.”

Mama	Marie	We’d fry it in meal and egg batter, you know, and when it was all brown and crisp—not hard, though—we’d break open that cold beer. . . [MASK]’s eyes went soft as the memory of just such a meal sometime, somewhere transfixed her.

Maasie	Cholly	One open eye looked at him as if to say, “Mind how you take holt of that jar, boy.” [MASK] stared back, unable to move, until a fly settled at the corner of her mouth.

Janie	Cholly	“You ain’t dirty.” “I am too. Looka that.” She dropped her hands from the ribbon and smoothed out a place on her dress where the grape stains were heaviest. [MASK] felt sorry for her; it was just as much his fault.

Laura	Pecola	“I did not.” “Did. Your own daddy, too!” [MASK] tucked her head in—a funny, sad, helpless movement. A kind of hunching of the shoulders, pulling in of the neck, as though she wanted to cover her ears.

Scout	Frieda	Those rain-soaked eyes lit up, and her smile was full, not like the pinched and holding-back smile of other grown-ups. I moved to go up the stairs, but [MASK] said, “No, ma’am, we ain’t allowed.”

Tommy	Frieda	Our only handicap was our size; people gave us orders because they were bigger and stronger. So it was with confidence, strengthened by pity and pride, that we decided to change the course of events and alter a human life. “What we gone do, [MASK]?”

Clytemnestra	Cholly	[MASK] saw her dimly and could not tell what he saw or what he felt. Then he became aware that he was uncomfortable; next he felt the discomfort dissolve into pleasure. The sequence of his emotions was revulsion, guilt, pity, then love.

Daisy	Frieda	Who cares?” “You do,” said [MASK]. “That’s all you talk about.” “It is not.” “It is so. Boys, babies, and somebody’s naked daddy. You must be boy-crazy.”

Aunt Jemima	M’Dear	[MASK] turned and left the room. The preacher put her in his buggy to take her home. That evening the women brought bowls of pot liquor from black-eyed peas, from mustards, from cabbage, from kale, from collards, from turnips, from beets, from green beans.

Mrs.O'Brien	Frieda	Not because she was absurd, or repulsive, or because we were frightened, but because we had failed her. Our flowers never grew. I was convinced that [MASK] was right, that I had planted them too deeply. How could I have been so sloven?

Mama	Pecola	We circled the proud house and went to the back. There on the tiny railed stoop sat [MASK] in a light red sweater and blue cotton dress. A little wagon was parked near her. She seemed glad to see us. “Hi.” “Hi.”

Tom	Claudia	My mother’s voice drones on. She is not talking to me. She is talking to the puke, but she is calling it my name: [MASK]. She wipes it up as best she can and puts a scratchy towel over the large wet place.

Kevin	Cholly	Thus the banquet was the exultation, the harmony, the acceptance of physical frailty, joy in the termination of misery. Laughter, relief, a steep hunger for food. [MASK] had not yet fully realized his aunt was dead. Everything was so interesting.

Daisy	Geraldine	Except for a few shudders, it was still. There was only the slightest smell of singed fur. [MASK] opened the door. “What is this?” Her voice was mild, as though asking a perfectly reasonable question. “Who is this girl?”

Tracker	Cholly	“Well, he have to come on his own time. Good luck, coon baby.” They crushed the pine needles underfoot. [MASK] could hear them whistling for a long time, and then the dogs’ answer no longer a howl, but warm excited yelps of recognition.

Boon	Cholly	Anyway, she told [MASK] to get out or she would call the police. He cussed her and started pulling on me. I would of gone upside his head, but 1 don’t want no dealings with the police. So I taken my things and left.

Scout	Maureen	Gimme one of yours.” “You gone get one.” [MASK] appeared at my elbow, and the boys seemed reluctant to continue under her springtime eyes so wide with interest. They buckled in confusion, not willing to beat up three girls under her watchful gaze.

Mother	Geraldine	[MASK] did not talk to him, coo to him, or indulge him in kissing bouts, but she saw that every other desire was fulfilled. It was not long before the child discovered the difference in his mother’s behavior to himself and the cat.

Daisy	Pecola	Smiling white face. Blond hair in gentle disarray, blue eyes looking at her out of a world of clean comfort. The eyes are petulant, mischievous. To [MASK] they are simply pretty. She eats the candy, and its sweetness is good.

Tom	Fuller	“[MASK]?” The name was familiar to the man’s tongue. “I don’t know, he here somewhere. They he is. In the brown jacket.” The man pointed. A man in a light-brown jacket stood at the far end of the group.

Scout	Sammy	So what was the point? They were everything. Everything was there, in them. All of those pictures, all of those faces. She had long ago given up the idea of running away to see new pictures, new faces, as [MASK] had so often done.

Jenny	Cholly	When he got his hand in her bloomers, she suddenly stopped laughing and looked serious. [MASK], frightened, was about to take his hand away, but she held his wrist so he couldn’t move it. He examined her then with his fingers, and she kissed his face and mouth.

Darcy	Junior	“This ain’t your yard. It’s the school’s.” “But I’m in charge of it.” The girl started to walk away. “Wait.” [MASK] walked toward her. “You can play in it if you want to.

June	Frieda	“Oh. I can walk that way, I guess. Partly, anyway.” “Free country.” [MASK] came toward us, her brown stockings straining at the knees because she had tucked the toe under to hide a hole in the foot.

Dr	Frieda	“Am I going to die?” she asked. “Noooo. You won’t die. It just means you can have a baby!” “What?” “How do you know?” I was sick and tired of [MASK] knowing everything.

Scout	Cholly	[MASK]’s voice was low. “What for? He wasn’t nowhere around when you was born. Your mama didn’t name you nothing. The nine days wasn’t up before she throwed you on the junk heap. When I got you I named you myself on the ninth day.

Catherine	Cholly	No less did [MASK] need her. She was one of the few things abhorrent to him that he could touch and therefore hurt. He poured out on her the sum of all his inarticulate fury and aborted desires. Hating her, he could leave himself intact.

Scout	Pecola	We going everywhere together.” “You lying. You don’t have no pretty dresses.” “I do, too.” “Oh, come on, [MASK], what you telling us all that junk for?”

Ma	Pecola	Over her shoulder she spit out words to us like rotten pieces of apple. “Pick up that wash and get on out of here, so I can get this mess cleaned up.” [MASK] picked up the laundry bag, heavy with wet clothes, and we stepped hurriedly out the door.

Dally	China	He’d run you as long as there was ground. Well, I was little and cute then. No more than ninety pounds, soaking wet.” “You ain’t never been soaking wet,” [MASK] said. “Well, you ain’t never been dry.

Pecola	Maureen	We put our head scarves in our coat pockets, and our coats on our heads. I was wondering how to maneuver [MASK]’s fur muff into a gutter when a commotion in the playground distracted us. A group of boys was circling and holding at bay a victim, Pecola Breedlove.

Tigger	Junior	She sucked in her breath in fear and surprise and felt fur in her mouth. The cat clawed her face and chest in an effort to right itself, then leaped nimbly to the floor. [MASK] was laughing and running around the room clutching his stomach delightedly.

Mama	Jimmy	Course, we had to have everything just so. Now [MASK]’s people may all have to chip in. That undertaker that lays out black folks ain’t none too cheap.” “Seems a shame. She been paying on that insurance all her life.”

Dally	Frieda	Does it hurt?” She shook her head. “Then stop slinging snot.” [MASK] opened the back door. She had something tucked in her blouse. She looked at me in amazement and pointed to the jar. “What’s that supposed to do?”

Owner	Soaphead	It did not occur to him that he was really concerned about his own suffering, since the dog had adjusted himself to frailty and old age. [MASK] finally determined to put an end to the animal’s misery, and bought some poison with which to do it.

Tom	Cholly	I didn’t know if I owed her or not, but I needed my money. She wouldn’t let up none, neither, even when I give her my word that [MASK] wouldn’t come back there no more.

Father	Pecola	It never occurred to either of us that the earth itself might have been unyielding. We had dropped our seeds in our own little plot of black dirt just as [MASK]’s father had dropped his seeds in his own plot of black dirt.

Daisy	Pecola	That meant she didn’t want to talk anymore. [MASK] went to the window and looked down at the empty street. A tuft of grass had forced its way up through a crack in the sidewalk, only to meet a raw October wind.

Jenny	Frieda	When she finished, I went to look for [MASK]. I found her upstairs lying on our bed, crying the tired, whimpering cry that follows the first wailings—mostly gasps and shudderings. 1 lay on the bed and looked at the tiny bunches of wild roses sprinkled over her dress.

Zorro	Pecola	He was black all over, deep silky black, and his eyes, pointing down toward his nose, were bluish green. The light made them shine like blue ice. [MASK] rubbed the cat’s head; he whined, his tongue flicking with pleasure.

Mama	Pecola	Her one good foot made hard, bony sounds; the twisted one whispered on the linoleum. In the kitchen she made noises with doors, faucets, and pans. The noises were hollow, but the threats they implied were not. [MASK] opened her eyes and lay staring at the dead coal stove.

Fido	Bob	He closed his box, eased himself out on the bed, and slipped into an ivory sleep from which he could not hear the tiny yelps of an old lady who had come out of her candy store and found the still carcass of an old dog named [MASK].

Steelley	Cholly	She was secure and grateful; he was kind and lively. She had not known there was so much laughter in the world. They agreed to marry and go ’way up north, where [MASK] said steel mills were begging for workers.

Atticus	Bible	That’s just downright sinful. I’m willing to do what I can for folks. Can’t nobody say I ain’t. But this has got to stop, and I’m just the one to stop it. [MASK] say watch as well as pray.

Daisy	M’Dear	He was aware, in his sleep, of being curled up in a chair, his hands tucked between his thighs. In a dream his penis changed into a long hickory stick, and the hands caressing it were the hands of [MASK].

Father	Cholly	Both of them had folded their faces in anger. [MASK] edged around to where they stood, hardly believing he was at the end of his journey. There was his father, a man like any other man, but there indeed were his eyes, his mouth, his whole head.

Lennie	Darlene	He could think only of the flashlight, the muscadines, and [MASK]’s hands. And when he was not thinking of them, the vacancy in his head was like the space left by a newly pulled tooth still conscious of the rottenness that had once filled it.

Holden	China	From deep inside, her laughter came like the sound of many rivers, freely, deeply, muddily, heading for the room of an open sea. [MASK] giggled spastically. Each gasp seemed to be yanked out of her by an unseen hand jerking an unseen 5 3 string.

Scout	Frieda	Well, they can just take they stocking down ’cause it ain’t Christmas. . . We fidgeted. “Let’s do something,” [MASK] said. “What do you want to do?” I asked. “1 don’t know. Nothing.”

Tom	Della	Said [MASK] was just too clean for him.” “Old dog. Ain’t that nasty!” “You telling me. What kind of reasoning is that?” “No kind. Some men just dogs.” “Is that what give her them strokes?”

Ishmael	Cholly	Whose boy was he? He couldn’t say, “I’m your boy.” That sounded disrespectful. The man was impatient. “Something wrong with your head? Who told you to come after me?” “Nobody.” [MASK]’s hands were sweating.

Jody	Pecola	[MASK] and I followed, making a wide arc to avoid the kitchen doorway. We sat on the steps of the porch, where my mother’s words could reach us only in spurts. It was a lonesome Saturday. The house smelled of Fels Naphtha and the sharp odor of mustard greens cooking.

Darlene	Darlene	“Ya’ll soaked, ain’t you?” [MASK]’s mother was only vaguely fussy. She had eaten and drunk too much. Her shoes were under her chair, and the side snaps of her dress were opened.

Ma	Frieda	I wasn’t asking the right questions. “It didn’t feel like anything.” “But wasn’t it supposed to? Feel good, I mean?” [MASK] sucked her teeth. “What’d he do? Just walk up and pinch them?”

Darry	Jake	The girls pretended they didn’t see the boys and kept on chattering. Soon their talk got sharp; the gentle teasing they had been engaged in with each other changed to bitchiness, a serious kind of making fun. That was [MASK]’s clue; the girls were reacting to him.

Scout	Lord	And now, consider: Not according to my just deserts, but according to my mercy, the little black girl that came a-looning at me today. Tell me, [MASK], how could you leave a lass so long so lone that she could find her way to me?

Tommy	Sammy	You hear me? I’m shutting up. You’d better. I don’t like that kind of talk. I said I’m shutting up. You always talk so dirty. Who told you about that, anyway? I forget. [MASK]? No.

