The Captain	Peregrine	“Cash?” “Yes.” “And what did those comings and goings consist of?” [MASK] gave a strained smile. “The same as they’ve consisted of for hundreds of years. This is a smuggler’s coastline. Always has been.

Jay Gatsby	Wetherby	[MASK] stood, bowed with ironic chivalry, and made his way to the door. She watched him go, and then remembering that her gown had no back to it, began to laugh. Perhaps she didn’t feel completely normal. Her clothes were nowhere to be found.

Katniss	Jean	Now that [MASK] was dry, the cold didn’t seem quite so agonising. She had known worse in the camp. And harder ground. “We killed two people today,” she said, the boy’s head cracking open once again before her half-closed eyes.

Jim	Faraj	Don’t stop. Don’t think. [MASK], meanwhile, carefully took the C4 device from the fridge, placed it in an open-topped biscuit tin that he had packed with a hand towel, and took it out to the car.

John	Jean	“It’s the best round here, I’d say.” “Right,” said [MASK], meeting his anxious, self-conscious gaze with a warm smile. “That’s ... Can you tell me exactly how to get there on foot?

Dally	Elsie	“I’m at the bungalows, and I’ve—” Then a shout of some kind. Not [MASK]’s voice, but stifled and indistinct. Two plinks, like a teaspoon on bone china, and a long gasping groan. The plinking sound repeated, a thump, and silence.

Molly	Megan	The alcohol raced round her system. In the old days, with [MASK], it had never taken much. A couple of glasses and she was flying. “If I told you that the conversation we’ve just had was the most important of your life ...”

Laurie	Whitten	Replacing his cup and saucer on the tray he stretched and looked meaningfully at his watch. “Was there anything else? Because if not I might just. . . press on with various things.” “Nothing,” said [MASK], remaining resolutely seated.

John	Whitten	There’d be another crew waiting there with documents, and they’d take them on to ... wherever.” “And there would be how many again in each consignment?” [MASK] was repeating earlier questions, checking the answers against his notes for inconsistencies.

Ellis	Mackay	He wasn’t a migrant, like the others; he’d paid to be brought in and then, in a month’s time, to be taken out again.” “A month’s time?” interjected [MASK]. “You’re sure of that?”

Holden	Liz	And sometimes not even then.” A spasm of knocking seized the radiator behind his desk, and there was a faint smell of heated dust. Outside the windows the skyline was vague against the winter sky. “I’m sorry,” [MASK] said.

Rosa Klebb	Liz	“He stared at me,” continued [MASK]. “With or without shame?” “Without.” “You’ll have to kill him. Kick him in the ankle with your pointy shoes, Rosa Klebb-style.” “OK . . .

Jay Gatsby	Lakeby	Not for him the thread veins, pouchy eyes, and multiple chins that rendered his contemporaries so physically unappealing. [MASK]’s gaze was a clear sea-blue, his skin was taut, his hair a backswept gunmetal mane.

Miss Lonelyhearts	Whitten	There was a mocking, faintly supercilious quality to the grey-blue gaze. He probably considered himself a bit of a devil with the women. [MASK], who was leafing through a notebook, fielded the question. “Yes, sir. We just have to make some routine enquiries.

M	Delves	“All those Moneypennys.” “Well, it didn’t put them off, that’s for sure.” He looked pensive for a moment. “The guy we’re going to see, just to put you in the picture, is a man named [MASK].

Nodded	Wetherby	“For as long as it takes. Does he still think he’s going to university next year?” “No. Whether he’s told his parents or not I don’t know.” [MASK] nodded sympathetically, stood up, and walked to the window.

Dolores	Wetherby	“And the calibre of this ammunition?” “Seven point six two armour-piercing.” [MASK] didn’t smile, but regarded her thoughtfully for a moment, lowered the sharpened point of the dark green pencil to the desk, and nodded.

John	Denzil	I thought that’s where people went sailing.” “To be honest, I haven’t followed the whole thing very closely. My stepfather told me. He’s ...” She waited. [MASK] frowned awkwardly at his pint. “He’s, um . . .

Grace	Perry	The house had been built by [MASK]’s great-grandfather, to replace a much finer building which had burnt down, and she had always found it severe and uninviting. The gardens, however, were her pride and joy.

Smith	Ma’am	He looked around him for approval. “Anyone got a better idea?” There was silence. “How does that sound to you, gentlemen? [MASK]?” he asked the Army officers. They nodded. “Good enough,” said the lieutenant colonel.

Anne	Faraj	“We might not kill them all.” “It’s the only option we’ve got, [MASK].” “Let me think about it. And get changed, you have to buy us some food.” She nodded, and went into the back room.

Steve	Gunter	“Is it a gay pick-up place, then, the cafe?” “It’s every kind of pick-up place. They get very frisky, these long-distance HGV boyos.” “Could [MASK] have been there to pick up a woman?”

She	Liz	He had a near inexhaustible fund of stories, most of them concerning the extreme behaviour—or misbehaviour—of his service colleagues. At the same time, [MASK] noticed—and however much she tried to lead him on—he never actually fingered anyone directly.

Vin	Honan	This whole immunity thing’s just about the brief earning his fee. He’s got to be able to go back to his client and say that he tried.” “Can I take that as a yes?” [MASK] was demanding. “An undertaking that you’ll. ..”

Roark	Liz	“What would you have done if the guy had refused to give back the money?” “Left him to your tender mercies,” said [MASK]. “We’re just an intelligence-gathering organisation, after all. We don’t do violence.”

Rorschach	Mansoor	He had to be kept happy.” “And then the USAF shot up his family.” “That’s right. A tragic accident or lethal incompetence, depending on your reading of the facts, but [MASK] reads it as revenge.

Marion	Liz	He wanted her to value him, to give him her undivided attention, to sit and listen to his catalogue of the world’s unfairnesses. Discerning this, [MASK] had made the necessary time, and gradually, like flowers laid at her feet, the information had come in.

Arthur	Jean	Everything else that might assist a forensic investigation— their used clothes, the sheets and blankets, the spare food— was bundled into the centre of the sitting room and sprinkled with petrol from the five-litre container [MASK] had filled at the Hawfield garage.

James	Whitten	“So, tell me, what actually happened? I heard the poor bugger had been shot, of all things. Is that true?” “It looks like it, sir, yes,” said [MASK]. “Do you have any idea why?”

Phoebe	Mackay	Tell parents they’re risking daughter’s life by not talking. She had encrypted and sent the reply, and hoped for the best. After a shower and a silent breakfast with [MASK] in the Trafalgar dining room, she had been back in the village hall by 7:30.

Valmont	Faraj	She had been cut loose from the need to obey anyone, or any creed, ever again. They couldn’t kill her; neither [MASK] and his people, nor her pursuer and her people. She was already dead. How long she walked, she didn’t know.

James Bond	Mackay	“And those two jokers damn well better bomb something tonight, or . . .” A dozen or so pairs of eyes stared at him. The SAS captain sniggered. The moment was saved by the ringing of [MASK]’s landline. The MI6 man snatched up the receiver.

Truly Scrumptious	Cherisse	“No. I’m ravenous. I might just go and have a quick word with Truly Scrumptious over there. Would you mind ...” Dropping his keys proprietorially on the table, he marched off to the bar, where he was soon locked in intimate consultation with [MASK].

Eve	Liz	Know his stuff?” [MASK] shook her head and tried to finger-comb her wind- blown hair into some sort of order. She smiled to herself. The man was just too good to be true—a perfect specimen of the Vauxhall Cross genus.

Danny	Gunter	She paused. “What was the deal with [MASK]?” He stared bleakly out of the window. “As you surmised, the idea was that I turned a blind eye to his comings and goings at night.” “How much did they pay you?”

Miss Gardner	Liz	As a main course.” “Very clever,” said [MASK], frowning. “How did you do that?” “Classified. Have some wine.” She would have liked some, but felt that she had to stick with her not-at-lunchtime statement.

Mable	Anne	“Well, you shoot with an arms dealer,” said [MASK] mildly, stirring her coffee. “True, but that’s all very ethical these days. You can’t just flog the stuff to African dictators off the back of a lorry.”

Freddie	Whitten	“Fias the garage still got the fifty-pound notes?” “No. Banked them a couple of days ago. But [MASK]’s got an Identi-fit artist on the case. He and the garage guy are putting a portrait together right now.”

Vera	Liz	The cash was put in the safe on Monday night, banked midday Tuesday, and is now effectively untraceable.” “Tell me about the driving licence,” said [MASK], reaching for the pen and notebook on her bedside table.

Eleanor	Mansoor	“I just can’t believe that [MASK]’s controllers would waste an asset like her on a pointless assault on a high-security installation. I stand by what I said before: she must have privileged information of some kind.”

Elena	Liz	[MASK] looked around her. The faces were friendly enough but the message from each of them was the same. This was the endgame, the point at which theory was translated into action. The cerebral stuff—the intelligence-gathering and analysis—was over.

Lena	Liz	“Don’t move, [MASK],” he ordered her, pinning her down hard by the wrists. “Please. You’re not thinking straight.” His voice was just a whisper. She bared blood-darkened teeth, and writhed. “I said don’t move\

Heathcliff	Wetherby	[MASK], she thought, looked tired. The shadows seemed to have deepened around his eyes, and his features had assumed a fatalistic cast which made her wish that she was the bearer of better news. Perhaps, though, it was just a matter of the time of day.

Laurie	Goss	That this cycle led to her denying her own emotional needs she was well aware. Each parting was an excision, a scalpel’s downstroke, for which the only cure was immersion in work. “Tape’s here,” said [MASK], materialising at her side.

Sandy	Mark	“She’s probably asleep,” [MASK] answered cheerfully. “She’s had her sister’s kids all weekend.” “And you, meanwhile ...” “I know. It’s a cruel world, isn’t it?”

Tom	Liz	“All right,” he said. “The path, then. Pack the bags.” In the Swanley Heath mess hall, [MASK] sat in front of an untouched slice of buttered toast and a cup of black coffee. So far.

Roark	Fane	I’ve no choice on this one.” “[MASK]?” “Precisely. He wants his man there. In fact he insists on him being there, as indeed he has every right to insist.” “Full disclosure? Full data-sharing?”

He	Liz	Did he mean that she was pretty in the conventional sense, [MASK] wondered, or something else? Some men were subconsciously attracted to women in whom they detected low self-esteem, or fear. So was this woman afraid?

the Redgraves	Delves	When he saw that the task of eliminating [MASK]’ family was no longer possible, he simply gave up. He was armed, and could easily have taken out at least one of those SAS guys, but by that stage ...” She shrugged.

Mary	Liz	Within the year she was working full-time for the nursery and eighteen months later she was running it. When [MASK] came up to stay with her at weekends they would go for long walks along the stone-paved avenues and the grassy allees and her mother would explain her hopes and plans for the nursery.

Rose	Liz	No, [MASK] told herself. Her best bet was to go at the problem from the other end. Find the woman. Catch her. Stop her. Glancing at the laptop screen, a thought occurred to her.

Muhammad's	Sohail	The crunch came one late summer afternoon when three Arabic-speaking men had entered the shop from an elderly Mercedes. One of [MASK]’s colleagues had nudged him, indicating the oldest of them— a nondescript figure with thinning hair and a scruffy beard.

Mrs. Thompson	Liz	Single mum doing the shopping. Dab of makeup, lank hair, sharp expression. Invisible in any high street. Soon they were making their way southwards towards the town of Swaffham. [MASK] drove carefully, pointedly observing the speed limits.

Russia	Shauna	If she refocused her attention, her subconscious would continue to shuffle the pieces of the jigsaw. Continue to meditate on exposed headlands, terror networks, and armour-piercing ammunition. And perhaps come up with some answers. How would it be if he left [MASK]?

Lena	Liz	The barmaid nodded vaguely and turned away. A minute later, still visibly dazed, she delivered the drink and rang up the price on the till. As she handed over the change, [MASK] saw the man’s eyes briefly widen.

She	Liz	“How did you see what I’d written on the menu?” He laughed. “I didn’t. But every woman I’ve eaten with here has ordered the same thing.” [MASK] stared at him. “We’re that predictable, are we?”

Pippa	Liz	Come and have a look at the beach.” A couple of minutes later they were standing amongst the tall sedges and grasses, looking down at the shingle and the sea. “It’s really very private, isn’t it?” said [MASK].

Daisy	Jean	The level was much higher than [MASK] remembered it, and the water was a dense, swirling coffee-brown. A scum of foliage, cigarette ends, and fast-food containers circled at the foot of the steps. Turning, she looked around her.

Bartender	Liz	“Knew him to look at. He came in a few times. In the public bar.” She flicked over the pages of her pad and handed [MASK] the bill. “That’s seven pounds exactly.” “Thanks. Can you do me a receipt?”

John	Bruno	He keeps me in the picture.” “Ah, so that’s the trouble.” He sipped his whisky. “I thought I left a message.” “Yeah, and the cheque’s in the post. Ring me, [MASK], OK.

Colonel Klinker	Mackay	“Can you tell us about the USAF personnel who live off-base?” asked [MASK], bending the peak of his cap into a suitably cool, movie-hero curve. “Surely they’re vulnerable to attack? Everyone must know where they live.”

Lennie	Stillness	Unhurriedly, the truck negotiated a three-point turn in the centre of the puddled ground so that it was facing the exit. The headlights were then extinguished. [MASK] for several seconds, and then a bulky figure jumped down from the cab.

Scout	Jean	The car rocked a little, but otherwise refused to budge. “Wait,” [MASK] ordered him. Pulling back her wet hair, she climbed down beside him, put an arm around him and grabbed a fistful of his jacket to brace herself.

Johnny	Mark	She caught her breath. Other boys were at the minibus windows now, gesturing obscenely and laughing. She forced herself to look away. She hated taking calls in the car, and she had asked [MASK] never—under any circumstances—to call her during work hours.

Dave	Faraj	Try anything—anything at all—and he’ll shoot you in the head.” From his pocket [MASK] drew the blunt-nosed PSS, reloaded with SP-4 rounds, and slapped back the magazine, which engaged with a businesslike click.

She	Liz	“Well, that’s the question, isn’t it?” He looked at her assessingly. “Does your presence here mean that your people think there’s a terrorist connection?” “We don’t know anything your people don’t,” said [MASK].

The second man	Peregrine	I had a key to the padlock.” “So apart from this second man, did you ever meet or see anyone else?” “Never.” “Can you describe the second man?” [MASK] considered. “He looked . .. violent.

Richard	Honan	[MASK] looked down at his hands. “As I said, I’m speaking entirely without prejudice here, but I am led to understand that the relevant area of criminal law might be that relating to immigration.” “People-smuggling, you mean?”

Liza	Liz	The mudflats were underwater now, and the incoming tide slapped fretfully at the sea wall in front of her. A seagull landed heavily beside the bench, saw that [MASK] had no food with her, and swung away again on to the wind.

Johnny	Mitchell	What have you been doing with yourself?” “Waiting for you blokes, basically. Putting my house in order. I knew it was just a matter of time.” “Why didn’t you come straight in? Give yourself up?” [MASK] shrugged.

Emil	Mansoor	And in the meantime there were things to do. When he woke [MASK] would want to wash—the smell in the car the night before had been of stale body-odour and vomit— and he would want to eat.

John	Faraj	He glanced at her suspiciously, detecting the defeat in her voice. “If we’re caught in the open,” she pleaded, “we’re dead. Dead, [MASK]. Here, at least we’re invisible.” He was silent, considering.

Mrs. Hughes	Liz	“My private life, young lady, is my own business, and I will not, repeat not, be blackmailed in my own house.” He rose from the sofa. “You will kindly leave, and leave now.” [MASK] didn’t move.

O'Brien	Marzipan	At one end of the scale there were agents like [MASK] who informed on their colleagues out of patriotism or moral conviction, and at the other end there were those who worked strictly out of self-interest, or for cash.

Catherine	Steve	He and the garage guy are putting a portrait together right now.” “When can we see it?” “We’ll have it on our screens within the hour.” “She’s right under our noses, [MASK]. I can practically smell her.”

Janie	Liz	The door opened. It was a young blonde woman in combat pants and a USAF T-shirt. “Hi there! How are you this morning?” “Er . . . OK, I think.” [MASK] blinked, struggling to an upright position.

Patton	Liz	“Yes,” said [MASK]. “We can protect our people and we can protect our aircraft. I took three hundred and seventy-six people and twenty-four aircraft out to the Central Asian theatre, we worked our torn, and I brought them all back.

Mr. Ramsay	Anne	[MASK] walked down the path towards the sea. The Hall and its gardens occupied an elevated spit of land flanked to east and west by open mudflats. At high tide these were covered by the sea but at low tide they lay shining and exposed, the domain of cormorants, terns, and oystercatch-ers.

Jean	Mackay	I should be thinking about getting back across the river.” “I’m sure our respective bosses won’t object to a little ... inter-Service liaison work,” protested [MASK]. “At least have some coffee.” She agreed, and he signalled to the waiter.

O'Brien	Mitchell	In the event, though, he had no need of it. The cargo, as usual, looked cowed, fearful and properly respectful. As a self-styled patriot [MASK] had no time for raghead illegals, and would have been much happier sending the whole bloody lot of them home.

Ponyboy	Mackay	We have a very close relationship with the local community, and anyone asking questions of that sort would very quickly find themselves face to face with a military policeman.” “But your people have to let their hair down from time to time, surely?” persisted [MASK].

Jean	Liz	I’m working with the police.” “What’s that mean, working with the police?” [MASK] reached inside her coat and found her Civil Service identity card. “I report back to the Home Office.”

Jane	Asimat	Now she folded her waterproof jacket through the backpack’s strap, so that it hung in front of her. He squinted at her shadowy form. “Are you ready to do this thing, [MASK]?” “I’m ready,” she said calmly.

Sandy	Anne	But she liked to know what was going on in his life, and right now she didn’t. Something was up. A cold sea breeze rustled the sedges and agitated the feathery heads of the grasses. Pocketing the secateurs, [MASK] proceeded towards the path which led to the beach.

Ruth	Jean	Rolling up the casing in the muddy jeans she had taken off that morning, [MASK] had tucked it at the bottom of the backpack. It had been decided that there was no point in trying to disguise the device.

Mrs. Wilcox	Jean	Why don’t I just give you a hundred and fifty pounds right now—cash, right— and we can ...” But to her horror, [MASK] saw that a phone had appeared in the woman’s hand, and that the two-inch gap in the window was closing.

He	Liz	He was a good-looking man for his age, [MASK] thought, but unfortunately he was very much aware of the fact. There was a mocking, faintly supercilious quality to the grey-blue gaze. He probably considered himself a bit of a devil with the women.

Eloise	Liz	Around her pressed the smell of other people’s damp clothes. A wet briefcase, not her own, rested in her lap. Nestling her chin into her velvet scarf, [MASK] leaned back into her seat and cautiously extended her feet in front of her.

The previous owners' daughter	Denzil	The kayak had belonged to the house’s previous owners, or more precisely to their daughter, who had lost interest in it and left it behind when the family moved. It had been gathering dust and house-martin droppings in the garage rafters for several years when [MASK] had decided to clean it up.

Mansoor	Mackay	The one [MASK] was telling us about yesterday?” “Yes, that one. This Mansoor—and it’s got to be quite a common name—is identified as one of half a dozen em- ployees of an auto repair shop on the Kabul road.

Lena	Lucy	Now, however, he seemed disposed for conversation. He called the woman [MASK], since this was the name on her driving licence and other documents, and for the first time he seemed to look at her closely, to fully acknowledge her presence.

Rosa	D’Aubigny	I tried to out-think [MASK], but I couldn’t do it. I just couldn’t get inside her head.” “You got as close as anyone could have done.” “At the moment her life ended we were face to face.

Dally	Denzil	[MASK] didn’t see her at first, but then she stepped quickly towards the Honda and climbed in. “Sorry,” he said, as she buckled herself in. “It’s a bit of a tip. Try and pretend it’s a Porsche.”

Mom	Denzil	The baby had been bathed, fed her bottle, and dressed in a clean white babygro. Now, sleepy-eyed and talcum-scented, she was ready to be shown off before being tucked up for the night. It was the moment [MASK] had been waiting for.

Gloria	Liz	How’s that?” She kept her eyes on the road. “Look, [MASK], I know that you’re pissed off that I’ve come busting into your case, especially after you’ve done all the groundwork. I really understand that.

Lady Brett's	Jean	Instead, rainwater poured into [MASK]’s lap from the knife slash in the vinyl top. With the engine turning over, she switched on the heater and windscreen-wipers, put the MGB into reverse, let off the handbrake, and backed out of the parking space.

Glocks	Heckler	He nodded, and stared intently at the gently undulating countryside. “How good are the security people?” “We would be foolish to assume that they are not very good.” “They’ll be armed?” “Yes. [MASK] and Koch MP5s.

Nancy	Wetherby	“I’m coming back now.” “I’ll be here,” said [MASK]. With each click of her scissors, another rat’s-tail of black hair fell to the floor. Outside, the sky was dark with unshed rain.

Gabriel	Anne	It is very private.” “Has anyone been on the beach today?” “Only me. This morning.” “Did you notice anything out of the ordinary?” [MASK] frowned. “Not that I can remember,” she said.

Johnny	Jean	“Are you all right?” shouted [MASK] through the Fiesta’s closed window. Rain sluiced down, drumming at the car roof and drenching her hair. The window opened a couple of inches, but the middle-aged driver continued to face ahead of her.

