Soda	Pascagoula	I holler that I am. I eat my toast and hope we can get this shopping trip over quickly. I am ten years too old to have my mother still picking out clothes for me. I look over and notice [MASK] watching me from the sink.

Myrna	Aibileen	She has her handbag in her lap. “I almost forgot to give this to you. From [MASK], for the Miss Myrna thing? I told her though, y’all cannot powwow on this today, not after all that time she missed in January.”

Mrs. Munroe	Minny	[MASK] is sitting at the table, stirring her coffee. When she sees me, she tugs the sleeve of her dress down, but I see the edge of a white bandage on her arm. She grumbles a hello, then goes back to her cup.

Sue	Aibileen	I sit down across from her. [MASK] gets up and pours me some coffee. “What she do?” I tell her about the bottles I found. I don’t know why I hadn’t told her a week and a half ago when I found them.

Hattie	Minny	“Rule Number One for working for a White Lady, [MASK]: it is nobody’s business. You keep your nose out of your White Lady’s problems, you don’t go crying to her with yours—You can’t pay the light bill?

Johnny	Patricia	I try to find a way to put it. He narrows his eyes at me. “Told you what?” “How bad it was. How hard it was on you,” I say. “With [MASK].” “He doesn’t know anything.

Judge O'Brien	Hilly	[MASK] gives the five-minute-till bang with her gavel. I make my way to my chair, lug my satchel onto my lap. I tick through the contents, suddenly conscious of the Jim Crow booklet I stole from the library.

Encapsulated time capsule	Crisco	and we play this game where I give him a real simple word and he got to come up with a fancy one like it. I say house cat, he say domesticized feline, I say mixer and he say motorized rotunda. One day I say [MASK].

Mary	Henry’ll	“Well, [MASK] be home soon.” She pulls her handbag up on her shoulder and stands up straighten The smile comes back on her face like a mask. She turns for the door, but looks back at me as she opens it.

Mary	Celia	“Her kids went to my church. I knew her.” “I sure do miss her.” He turns, opens the refrigerator, stares in, closes it. “When’s [MASK] coming back? You know?”

Molly	Patricia	“You sure?” he whispers and he kisses me then, on the mouth, not so politely as before. His hand is still on the upper quarter of my thigh and I find myself wondering again if he was like this with his fiancee, [MASK].

Billy	Louvenia	I work for fifteen hours straight on [MASK]’s interview. On Thursday night, I go to the League meeting. I’m dying to get out of the house, antsy from nerves, jittery about the deadline. The Christmas tree is starting to smell too rich, the spiced oranges sickly decadent.

Shaun	Aibileen	[MASK] asks. “Shoot. He strut around the kitchen like a plumed rooster cause he in front a the kids,” I say. “Act like he the only one supporting the family and I’m just doing this to keep my poor self entertained.

Johnny	Stuart	Everything’s fine.” I glance down the hall, where I can hear their voices. He sighs, stares off. “We’ve had a real hard year with [MASK]. I guess he told you what happened.” I nod, feeling my skin prickle.

He	Hilly’d	“So, do you know what you’re wearing for the date?” [MASK] asked the second time I came by. “Next Saturday?” I’d shrugged. “I guess I have to go shopping.”

Scout	Pilgrims	Crackers and tuna fish or Jell-O without no whip cream. “What you learn today?” I ask even though she ain’t in real school, just the pretend kind. Other day, when I ask her, she say, “[MASK].

Martha	Aibileen	I tell her everything I know, about the deadline, about “The Pile.” “Alright, so...” [MASK] is counting days in her head, the same way I have been all afternoon. “So we got two and a half weeks stead a six weeks.

Marion	Hilly	“Doesn’t it make more sense just to send them a check?” The meeting has not officially started, but [MASK]’s already behind her podium. There’s a franticness in her eyes. This isn’t our normal evening time, but an extra afternoon session

Mrs. Baker	Eugenia	“Well, I guess it’s time for bed. I’ll let you young people alone. [MASK]?” She eyes me. “Not too late, now?” I smile sweetly. I am twenty-three goddamn years old.

Elsie	Elizabeth	Our places of comfort are expectedly different, my friends and I. [MASK]’s is hunched over her sewing machine trying to make her life look seamless, store-bought. Mine is at my typewriter writing pithy things I’ll never have the guts to say out loud.

Tom	Law	[MASK]. That night after supper, me and that cockroach stare each other down across the kitchen floor. He big, inch, inch an a half. He black. Blacker than me. He making a crackling sound with his wings. I got my shoe in my hand.

Tom	Hilly	She is holding a dirty coffee cup in one hand, a heavy silver tray in the other. But she stands stock-still. [MASK] spots her, but doesn’t move either, just smiles very slightly. “Well. Wasn’t that sweet?

Sissy	Minny	“He’s at the deer camp tonight. [MASK], I need you to bring me the phone over—” her voice breaks into a trembly wail. “Drag it on over and fetch my phone book that’s setting in the kitchen.”

Darry	Leroy	“I reckon people gone be flying to the moon pretty soon,” I say. I’m not even listening to what’s coming out of my mouth. I’m listening for the scream again. When is that lady going to finish? “What’s for supper?” [MASK] says.

Mary	Elizabeth	“It’s canceled. [MASK]’s baby is colicky,” I lie. So many lies have been told, the room is thick with them. “How are you feeling?” I ask. The old white enamel bowl is next to her on the bed.

Janay	Minny	Besides her furiousness at white people, [MASK] likes to talk about food. “Let’s see, I put the green beans in first, then I go on and get the pork chops going cause, mmm-mmm, I like my chops hot out the pan, you know.”

nobody	Minny	“You don’t say your prayers, then?” “I never told nobody that before. Not even [MASK]. Find I can get my point across a lot better writing em down.” “So this is what you do on the weekends?”

Sarah	Aibileen	U\r J 5> Ye-yes maam. “And there’s definitely some editing you have to do. The Sarah section is in the best shape,” she’d said, and I tell [MASK] this through her fits and snorts.

John Wayne	Leroy	“Sit there without fighting back?” “That’s what they supposed to do,” says [MASK]. “I feel like spitting looking at that picture,” I say. “We talk about it later.”

Esmeralda	Minny	The Frigidaire picks up a hum where it left off. I put my hand on it to feel its vibration. “You’re awful early, [MASK].” I open the refrigerator and bury my head inside. “Morning,” I say from the crisper.

John	Lordy	Something ain’t going right in your innards, nature got to do something about it. Second time, you gone catch.” But then I think about those bottles and feel a ripple of anger. “That was... the second time.” “Oh [MASK].”

Precious	Minny	“It’s alright if you want a change your mind.” Slowly, warily, [MASK] settles again in her chair. “I do it. I just want a make sure she understand, this ain’t no game we playing here.”

Catherine	Hilly	“Yes, it’s getting worse.” But I cannot stand to touch [MASK] when she reaches out to me. When I back away from her hug, she acts like she doesn’t notice. But during the game, she keeps looking at me with narrowed eyes.

Jessica	Constantine	“I just need a minute,” I say. I press my hand on my forehead. I can’t help but think about [MASK]. I never thanked her, not properly. It never occurred to me I wouldn’t have the chance.

Rupert	Skeeter	“Who are you to say what I can and cannot carry ar—” “It is my job, [MASK]! You know well as I do, people won’t buy so much as a slice of pound cake from an organization that harbors racial integrationists!”

Jean	Aibileen	God, this hadn’t exactly crossed my mind. Only jail and perhaps fake charges or fines. “I... we’re being extremely careful,” I say but it comes out thin and unconvincing. I look at [MASK], but she is looking worried too.

Johnny	Aibileen	[MASK] waves and I pretend I don’t even see my own best friend on the side of the road in her bright white uniform. When I get to my house, I fix an ice pack for my eye.

Sarah	Minny	When everyone is gone, she looks up and meets my gaze for hardly a second, then jerks her eyes to the brown curtains, pinned tight across the window. But I see it, the flicker on her mouth, a hint of softness beneath her anger. [MASK] has made this happen.

Laura	Hilly	I don’t really feel like going through that again. “What? Don’t you dare say that.” “[MASK],” I clench my teeth, because it’s time I finally just said it, “you know I won’t be his type.”

Skeeter	Carlton	The daylilies have lost their blooms. It is nearly September. I was not a cute baby. When I was born, my older brother, [MASK], looked at me and declared to the hospital room, “It’s not a baby, it’s a skeeter!”

Darcy	Aibileen	The air turns cooler through the window. “I guess I got to go,” I say, even though I’d rather spend the rest of my life right here in [MASK]’s cozy little kitchen, having her explain the world to me.

Scout	Hilly	“Not too late, girls.” [MASK] stands there a second, her mouth hanging open. Finally, she goes to the door and flings it open and walks out. The letter is still in her hand.

Dawn	Skeeter	She looks at me evenly. “I think you need to go on and put those slacks on the list, now.” “But they’re comfortable and they’re warm and—” She shakes her head, shuts her eyes. “I’m sorry, [MASK].”

Reverend	Kennedy	I spoon out the congealed salad and the ham sandwiches, can’t help but listen to the chatter. Only three things them ladies talk about: they kids, they clothes, and they friends. I hear the word [MASK], I know they ain’t discussing no politic.

Atticus	Boy	I finish To Kill a Mockingbird. Finally, I pick up the Jackson Journal, pick through it. It’s Friday, so there won’t be a Miss Myrna column. On page four, I read: [MASK] blinded over segregated bathroom, suspects questioned.

Ms. Pepper	Aibileen	I take a sip of my Coke, smooth my blouse. “So...” I say. [MASK] has a wire-ringed notebook in front of her. “Want me to... just go head and read?” “Sure,” I say.

Aibileen	Aibileen	I’ve been trying to tell white women the truth about working for them since I was fourteen years old. “We don’t want a change nothing around here,” [MASK] says and we’re both quiet, thinking about all the things we don’t want to change.

Scout	Eugenia	“I don’t... dislike you, sir,” I say, shifting in my flats. “I don’t mean to bury you in our troubles, but things have been pretty hard here, [MASK]. We were worried sick after all that mess last year.

Darry	Carlton	What’s his new friend going to think if you leave for something better to do?” I’ve put off telling her this because I knew, whether [MASK] was home or not, it would turn into an argument.

Sydney	Hilly	She nods and goes on in the house. That night, I work on the newsletter, wishing I was working on the stories instead. I go through the notes from the last League meeting, and come across [MASK]’s envelope. I open it.

Lula	Minny	And then we cooking—” “No learning lesson today, [MASK].” She isn’t smiling either, like she usually does when she sees me. “You feeling bad?” “Fetch me some water, will you?” “Yes’m.”

Cherry	Minny	Until she dead quiet. If I couldn’t hear her breathing, I’d think she hung up the phone. Please, [MASK], I think. Please, take this chance to get out. She take a deep, shaky breath.

Stan	Constantine	[MASK] narrowed her eyes at me. “How tall is you?” “Five-eleven,” I cried. “I’m already taller than the boys’ basketball coach.” “Well, I’m five-thirteen, so quit feeling sorry for yourself.”

Sahara	Will	Most of em is busy-busy, running errands, acting like they busier than me.” “She needs some friends. I asked my buddy [MASK] if he’d get his wife to come out and teach her to play bridge, get her in a group.

Suzy	Aibileen	I’d told her this is how it has to be done. “Well, we could shorten it a little...” I say and pull out my pencil. [MASK] scratches her nose, says, “What you think about just calling it... Help?"

Nancy	Hilly	I’m stung by her bitter, true words. And yet, I am awed by my friend, by her tenacity for me. [MASK] and I’ve always been uncompromisingly honest with each other, even about the little things.

Johnny	Aibileen	I told her not to put her head in there when she got them big rollers in.” “Call me if you hear anything,” I say. “I do the same.” “Something’s gone happen soon, [MASK]. It’s got to.”

Johnny	Aibileen	“These is white rules. I don’t know which ones you following and which ones you ain’t.” We look at each other a second. “I’m tired of the rules,” I say. [MASK] chuckles and looks out the window.

Sue Ann	Wo	[MASK]n’t let me in there to help. Say it’s not like one a my cakes, it’s a fancy recipe she got out the Gourmet magazine. She hosting a luncheon tomorrow for her church and the dining room’s stacked up with party serving stuff.

Chapterio	Minny	[MASK] CHAPTERIO I walk into work with one thing on my mind. Today is the first day of December and while the rest of the United States is dusting off their manger scenes and pulling out their old stinky stockings, I’ve got another man I’m waiting on.

Anne	Aibileen	“We’ve talked plenty of times, [MASK]...” She puts her hand to her mouth. “I’m sorry, I—” She gets up and walks quickly down the narrow hall. A door closes, rattling the teapot and the cups on the tray.

Ruth	Constantine	[MASK] put the box top down and looked over the pieces again. “Because your daddy was so... tall?” I asked. She chuckled. “Cause my daddy was white. I got the tall from my mama.” I put the piece down.

Jim	Skeeter	“Hey there, [MASK].” He hugs me to him. He is rumpled from the car drive, handsome in his college cable-knit sweater. The fresh air on him smells good. It’s nice to have someone else here.

Sandy	Aibileen	She bites her lip and it strikes me then that she’s still afraid for him. Even though he’s dead, the instinct to be afraid for her son is still there. “It’s fine that you told me, [MASK]. I think it was...

Janie	Aibileen	Low and cool, she say, “You spilled some, [MASK].” “I’m sorry, I—” “Wipe it up.” Shaking, I wipe it with the cloth I had on the handle a the pitcher. She staring at my face.

Gerty's	Hilly	“Fertilizer.” He strides off to the men’s room and I wish I could disappear. The car ride, all three minutes of it, is impossibly silent. And long. We go back inside [MASK]’s house.

Jordan	Carlton	We’re all sad that [MASK] had to leave this morning. It’s been nice having my brother around to talk to. His last words to me, before he hugged me and headed back to school, were, “Don’t burn the house down.”

Darry	Leroy	He’s staring with his lip curled like I deserved every bad day I’ve ever lived, every night I haven’t slept, every blow [MASK]’s ever given. Deserved it and more. And his fist starts punching his palm with a slow rhythm. Punch.

Marina	Hilly	I sigh, turn around and face [MASK]. She’s wearing a navy blue sailor number, something you’d dress a five-year-old in. The pleats around her hips are stretched open like accordion bellows. The room is empty except for us now.

Sandra	Minny	She seventeen years younger than I am. [MASK] could probably lift this bus up over her head if she wanted to. Old lady like me’s lucky to have her as a friend. I take the seat in front a her, turn around and listen.

Ms. Morris	Skeeter	“[MASK],” she says. “You have a minute?” I stand there blinking, surprised. No one’s asked me for even a second, much less a minute, in over eight months. “Um, sure,” I say, wary.

Scout	Aibileen	I told her we’d try it just to get the project going again. [MASK] takes a breath, a swallow of Coke, and reads on. She backtracks to her first job at thirteen, cleaning the Francis the First silver service at the governor’s mansion.

Sookie	Aibileen	What a we do now? Law, I ain’t even got no coffee ready! ” We sit and they both stare at me, leaning forward. [MASK]’s eyes are big. I’ve been waiting at home with the news for four hours.

Daisy	Minny	It’s a rumor she’d intended to spread about [MASK], in case the pie story ever got out. “What do they call that?” “A compulsive liar?” “That’s it, a compulsive liar.”

Penny	Aibileen	[MASK] is still smiling, completely undeterred by anything I’ve said. And honestly, I’m grateful for this. I knew she’d be excited, but I was afraid she’d be a little disappointed too. Seeing her makes me realize I’m not disappointed at all.

Lena	Ma’am	“[MASK].” She keeps her voice quiet. But I hear the shame in it. “They didn’t even ask me into the house. They made me stand out on the steps like a vacuum salesman.” I turn around and her eyes are down to the floor.

Oklahoma	Lord	“You get on out a here, you fool!” I yell. But the man doesn’t move. I take a few steps closer. And then so does he and I hear myself praying, [MASK] protect me from this naked white man...

Size5	Mothers	I was [MASK] dress size when I was eleven. She looks at me evenly. “I think you need to go on and put those slacks on the list, now.” “But they’re comfortable and they’re warm and—” She shakes her head, shuts her eyes.

Bob	Elizabeth	Funny how they ain’t smiling. “Scuse me,” I say and move on past. When we not but a foot away, I hear one say, “That’s the Nigra waits on [MASK]...” A cart rattles past us, blocking the words.

Mrs. Carter	Constantine	“I told [MASK] she wasn’t to write to you about leaving. Not in the middle of your final exams. What if you’d flunked and had to stay on another year? God knows, four years of college is more than enough.”

Mrs. Wilson	Hilly	“Now, we have something very exciting to discuss.” [MASK] accepts the notes from the lapdog and scans over them. “The committee has decided that our newsletter could use a little updating.” I sit up straighten Shouldn’t I decide on changes to the newsletter?

January	Aibileen	I try to look optimistic. “We have to be finished just after the new year.” “But that’s good news, ain’t it?” I nod, try to smile. “January,” [MASK] whispers and she gets up and leaves the kitchen.

Johnny	Treelore	Got two guys mowing for me.” He grin. He a handsome boy, tall with short hair. Went to high school with [MASK]. They was good friends, played baseball together. I touch him on the arm, just needing to feel it again.

Bernard	Leroy	It’s been two weeks since the Terrible Awful Thing I did to that woman. I know she’d just love to see me fired on the spot. “What [MASK] say when you told him you got the job?”

Little Sister	Farish	I want to stop that moment from coming—and it come in ever white child’s life—when they start to think that colored folks ain’t as good as whites. We turn on [MASK] and I stand up cause my stop be coming.

Nobody	Guynes	“I... saw,” I say, thinking a the bus. [MASK] ain’t but five minutes away from here if you got a car. .. witnesses say it was a single man, a white male, who jumped from the bushes. Rumors ofKKKinvolvement are... ”

Jean Louise	Hilly	There is light applause, some cold smiles and nods between members and nonmembers. Such a pity, the members seem to be thinking. Such a shame you girls haven’t the gentility to join our club. [MASK] goes on, thanking and recognizing in a musical, patriotic voice.

Toni	Leroy	We don’t talk about me leaving [MASK]. Plenty of black men leave their families behind like trash in a dump, but it’s just not something the colored woman do. We’ve got the kids to think about. “Thought about driving up to my sister’s.

Daisy	Aibileen	“Well, ain’t you lucky.” “I’ve never been happier in my whole life.” I leave it at that. Underneath all that happy, she sure doesn’t look happy. That night, I call [MASK].

Maya	Aibileen	But she had the gall to ask if me and some a my maid friends might want a put down on paper what it’s like to tend for white people. Say she writing a book.” “Say what?” [MASK] nods, raises her eyebrows.

Cli Quinn	Hilly	And who knows, maybe this time will be different, with the holidays starting and all. But the minute I walk in, backs turn. My exclusion is tangible, as if concrete walls have formed around me. [MASK] gives me a smirk, whips her head around to speak to someone else.

Johnny	Louvenia	“I bet you’re right,” the other one say. “I bet that’s her...” Me and [MASK] keep walking real quiet, looking dead ahead. I feel prickles up my neck, hearing the ladies’ heels clack away.

Hazel	Aibileen	Keep our expectations between low and nonexistent. I feel obli- gated to communicate this to [MASK] so she doesn’t end up disappointed. I’ve hardly even figured out how I should feel about it myself. “Listen, she said not to get too excited.

Laurie	Hilly	Mine is at my typewriter writing pithy things I’ll never have the guts to say out loud. And [MASK]’s is behind a podium telling sixty-five women that three cans apiece isn’t enough to feed all those PSCAs.

Mrs. Wilson	Hilly	“Of course she doesn’t appreciate a thing I do. I had to fire that maid for her, caught her trying to steal the damn silver right under my nose.” [MASK] narrows her eyes a bit.

Cherry	Aibileen	[MASK] stops peeling. I see her throat move when she swallows. “Please don’t tell nobody that,” she says, softer now, “him wanting to write about his white boss.” She bites her lip and it strikes me then that she’s still afraid for him.

Dave	Stuart	T. > » It s gone. “Well, good, [MASK],” I say. “Good for you.” He moves closer and leans down so I will look at him. And I feel sick, literally nauseated by the smell of bourbon on his breath.

Johnny	Stuart	“He doesn’t know anything. He doesn’t know who it was or what it was about or...” He leans back against the wall and crosses his arms and I see that old anger again, deep and red. He is wrapped in it. “[MASK].

Johnny	Hilly’d	I cringed at the mention of his name, even though we’d been broken up for weeks by then. I could imagine him looking away, not caring what I did anymore. “You turned my yard into some kind of a sideshow,” [MASK] said.

him	Stuart	“I’ve had a long talk with your daddy and I have made a decision.” “Oh God,” I sigh. I can just see her explaining it to [MASK] when he asked for my hand. “Is this about the trust fund?”

