He	Helen	But it’s what [MASK] wants to do. Son, when you can, always advise people to do what you see they really want to do. So long as what they want to do isn’t dangerously unlawful, stupidly unsocial, or obviously impossible, you can, and you should.

Barnabas	Mike	We did what we could. We picked up some pieces. [MASK] wasn’t cleaned out. He'd been able to hold on to some land along the railroad; and though it didn’t look like much then, the whole corpus of the present estate came from it.

Stephen	Warren	Right; [MASK] wouldl Here was surprise; at that look, those words, the mind rocked with revelation, with the falling of things into place and pattern. Ex pede Herculem—the shock was recognition’s shock.

Daisy	Hope	For one thing, [MASK] as an object of sight greatly pleased; and this was, of course, important since her proposed lover had gained at least an inkling of the great truth that people, if you have the eyes to see, are what they look like.

Mr. Weston	Elmer	Since most of his singers were still distant, [MASK], in support, was opening the distincter stops, diapasons and flutes sweetly voluming. First into the transept, and alone for that moment, altos broke on the ear—a dozen scrubbed, starched-collared small boys piping up, pure and neuter.

Jay Gatsby	Noah	By this confusing record, did [MASK], on some system of his own, keep track of his informal, his private transactions—cash advanced, as he glumly said, out of his own pocket? Over the months, constant emendations or corrections had been made—items canceled; items inserted.

Winston	Noah	“No,” he said, “I think we should try for a while telling [MASK] nothing. Humanitarian considerations aren’t, let me say candidly, my only ones. As you point out, the risks of what I’m suggesting are far from inconsiderable.

Earnshaw's	Caroline	What waste of breathl If you had eyes to see, and if affection was the condition of [MASK]’s obedience, that those parents would not get obedience was foregone; it was not in them to know how to get affection.

Mr. Buchanan	Noah	My legal acquirements were not too meager; but working with the best minds of our bar would infallibly give them polish. There was the circumstance that you and I had long been friends; and that [MASK] had no living son. This first-rate heritage we stood to inherit.”

Daisy	Marjorie	I agree you’re owed an apology; but I find [MASK] is ashamed, would prefer not to see you just now. Having no doubt you’d much prefer not being apologized to, I had her bring the car around the back where I would not need any help with steps.

He	Ralph	“Well—” [MASK] said. He cleared his throat. “You see, I guess she’d been getting me more and more excited. So as soon as I was—well, in her, then I couldn’t wait any more.

Quentin	Joan	Possibly it might be better, both for them, and for you and [MASK], if I did the telling. There, again, I think you’ll find that when they see what’s done is done, they’ll accept it.

Atticus	Ralph	“Yes,” he said. “I’m aware that to deliver the innocent is as much the duty of a public prosecutor as to incarcerate the guilty. Has [MASK], by some chance, powerful political influence with the young reformatory set down at the Old Timbers Tavern?

Julia	Maud	Your money’s yours to use. You can’t get me to say I approve of this use; but I think you have an absolute right to do with it what you want. So go ahead.” His Aunt [MASK] said: “Well, thank you for thatl”

Mr. Arcady	Noah	Tired, he took too quickly the relief of supposing [MASK] meant it when he said he was a trouble, the relief of hoping those variances the old man’s stubbornness occasioned were going to stop. That, he surely should know, was silly to suppose; and much too much to hope!

Molly	Midge	“And, speaking of duties, I know [MASK] is going to feel I’m shirking some of mine I I was to report to the kitchen with no unnecessary delay. There are things that need to be taken down, and things that need to be put up.

Hester	Arthur	“You aren’t able to say ‘sin,’ are you, [MASK]? It’s easier when you can; because there are degrees of sin. People may do wrong things because of circumstances—some situation catches them, and they have a weak moment.

Dally	Ralph	They're a no-good lot—two or three reformatory graduates who don’t seem to remember they’re on probation. Several girls who appear to be well-established teen-age tarts. The sooner [MASK] has to support a wife and stay home evenings, the better.”

Estella	Joan	Either [MASK] misunderstood him, or you misunderstood her. It’s true that, in law, he can’t be made to marry her; but I feel he ought to, and he feels he ought to; so we have only ways and means to discuss.

Sairy	Ann	Doubling her fist, [MASK] punched his arm several times. “I never said, right away! It wouldn’t be till next year. But we have to know now; because we have to save our money to run it.”

George	George	At no present cost to the bank, options would enable him to take, in due course, an ever-larger share of profits he had good reason to believe the bank, managed by him, was bound to earn. A shrewd and forward-looking man, [MASK] had planned well.

Daisy	Veronica	So I didn’t want her to think I was a cheap skate.” “Go on.” “So by then, [MASK] had her clothes fixed; and so she found this rip in her dress—it must have caught on something while she was pulling it up.

Annie	Catholic	She said: “It is hard for you to understand, isn’t it?” She laughed indulgently. “You’re thinking: Anyone who turns [MASK] must really be out of her mind—why, she might do anything!”

Eleanor	Helen	Easily enlisting my sympathies, she asked me to find out about them. First: she conceives, because last night [MASK] seemed to have you worried, that you may be telling yourself this wouldn’t have happened if you’d spoken to her.’’ He paused.

Molly	Hope	Toward the end of the period of their engagement, feelings, clearly intense, of tenderness appeared to affect her in the same way. Not impossibly, pacing his resolve to love, parallel to it, equal in its success, a resolve of [MASK]’s, a young woman’s love of love deter-

Romanism	Ezra	Also, he had proposed a few High-Church practices that smelled to [MASK] of popery.) “I want this money kept together; so I want you to have all the say, and them not to have any.

Cecilia	Marjorie	“But we’re not. It concerns [MASK], poor dear. Very much so! You see, a great deal’s demanded of you if you are to be a Catholic. We don’t, for instance, smile at hell. We can’t.

Jane	Helen	He won’t be long. I was just telling [MASK] to tell you if you came. She wanted to see you a moment, if she could. Oh, dear! There! He’s ringing again.”

Jem	Noah	[MASK], the young man clerking in a law office, was working to earn his law learning while he was getting it. Admitted to the bar, he was supposed to be ready, with what he had learned, to make a living.

Bob	Lawrence	I think the point was that [MASK] did have a regard for the feelings of others —my feelings. He knew what I was assuming, and that I would be disappointed; and, very humanly, he didn’t like to tell me.

the judge's	Joe	ing to see a reflection on it. This matter was in [MASK]’s jurisdiction; and if a certain party thought he was going to horn in, he thought wrong. The district attorney would get the transcript and return in due course from the clerk of quarter sessions.

Tom	Arthur	You don’t have the use of your logical faculties—or, at least, most of us don’t.” His mother said: “Well, you are like your father—in many, many ways, [MASK]. I often notice.

Cordelia	Marjorie	Granted that the self [MASK] fears, she fears with cause. Yet, that’s not the whole story of her unhappiness. By nature, she’s unable to do without men; and she has been unfortunate with men. She’s found them deceivers ever.

Babyface	Ralph	But, then, he’d be bound to know he needed a college degree if a professional career interested him—” Would anything be gained by putting bluntly his own guess that [MASK], as well as not having the interest, probably hadn’t the capacity for such careers?

Johnny	Chet	There must be other places you can dance. That the Old Timbers would be a good place is something I think you just heard somewhere.” He smiled. “I don’t think you’ll find anyone you know has ever been there.” "[MASK] has.”

Lolita	Jack	Nobody ever raped her! What I hear around, you can’t; she’s raping you before you get the chance. [MASK]! Thing I wrote there; that Special Attention; take that in and put it on the tape, will you.

Edna	Clarissa	You see, I could tell that, up till then, she’d never been to bed with a man; and that she was liking it; and that whether she ought to so much, whether you’d think she ought to, was worrying her. [MASK] knew I knew.

Atticus	Noah	“Appropriately enough, about a girl. They’ve arrested him. [MASK], quite rightly, thinks he can’t handle it. So I’ll have to get down. I can’t tell you any more; because I don’t know any more.”

Gatsby	Noah	Tomorrow. Tomorrow.” . . . just get things out of order! Conceivably, that was so. In the crowded, the yearly increasing, disorder which [MASK], pondering, planning, working, surrounded himself with, order of a sort there might be.

Jordan	Lawrence	She said: “Still, I wish you didn’t say things like that. Why should you want to be facetious?" Raising the list, she studied it distractedly. “Oh—[MASK]. I didn’t ask about him, did I?”

Huw	Dave	This was the genuine article, in all respects the article that [MASK], seeing how he could use it, had shrewdly bargained for and paid high for—a plain honest son of those plain honest farmer-fathers.

Molly	Marjorie	While [MASK], with or without plan, insistently proffered herself, did he never think of such a thing? And, at the come moment, when he was (right enough!) not able to help having the woman who (no need to doubt!)

John	Arthur	Putting out the quick hand again, she reached and touched his arm. She said: “Oh, please don’t imagine I think that was all, [MASK]. Or that, with you, that came first.

Atticus	Noah	I knew of something that it was my considered judgment you should not, need not, know. I don’t think you can fairly believe my motive was any but a hope to spare you while [MASK] was allowed time to restore, if he could, what he had taken.

Earth	Marjorie	Meanwhile, on [MASK] various factors are working. Her life has been mostly a discontented one. Now, to aggravate the accumulated disappointment and regret, come the moods of the menopause; and the rationalist’s poor recourse of grin-and-bear-it fails her.

Pippi	Ann	(So what? Maybe I want to dance with someone tough!) Then, no less childlike, [MASK] could be seen to falter. Her attention had been directed to the, in fact, unknown; to dangers, because indefinite, infinite.

Cathy	Arthur	Then they went and had a drink; and, well, he admits he did what he shouldn’t have done. But not against her will, [MASK]; she wanted him to; she led him on, he says.

Candace	Marjorie	“You have to think of the facts of the case as seen, all of them, through this daze of [MASK]’s reached feelings. Does she observe that he’s something of a drunk? Her heart’s touched.

Nurse Carmelita	Em	[MASK] was saying I should call you right away; but I said—this was late; half past one—you’d be asleep; and anyway what were you going to do that time of night? So she found then the telephone didn’t work.

Michael	Ralph	Somewhat laboriously, [MASK] said: “Oh, I told her the whole thing this morning. I went to see her. I had to confess it to her, I saw that.” “What exactly did you tell her?

Pippi	Ann	“Still, I wish we saw him sometimes,” his mother said. She looked at her list. “Oh—that about [MASK]. One thing she told me when she was here was that she had decided to be a lawyer. I suppose you know.

Atticus	Julius	You’ll recognize it. Incoming partner. How, then, could saying something be my business?” "When you know this and say nothing, you’re an accessory after the fact. [MASK], how could you?”

Jane	Marjorie	You’ve shown me, for instance, that what I mean by sin probably isn’t, probably couldn’t be, what you would mean. And, you see, that’s important; because [MASK]’s chief troubles are those of sin and guilt.”

Peter Pan's	Warren	Among the mute piles of [MASK]’s things in orderly arrangement was the packet of letters, the lavender-colored envelopes addressed in a slanting, young, unfinished script. With a sad pang of self-reproach, with the not-unmoving thought of who knows anything about anyone, he looked at them.

Lolita	Hope	Entrance of smutty ideas—say, imaginings of [MASK] as she would look undressing, as she would look undressed—would be an outrage, unthinkable; even a glance at them would amount to piacular pollution. But, come night; what then?

Tom	Helen	“Well, I do feel sorry for [MASK],” she said. “That boy always was thoroughly selfish.” Holding her hair, she picked up a narrow black ribbon, caught the held hair in a loop, and tied the ribbon firmly.

Emma	Circe	What, one asks one’s self, is the secret of such disastrous power? The stories neglect to say. They only relate the thing accomplished. One sees [MASK]; one sees swine. What was in that cup?”

Tom	Clarissa	He then wanted his protest against the whole of the proceedings noted as a part of the record. I didn’t think we could do that either. The issue was in every sense dehors the record.” With quick efficient movements, [MASK] had drawn on a pair of panties.

Veda	Willard	The energy failing, he mumbled: “She was his guardian. Now, I guess I’ll have to be. [MASK] can appoint me. Speak to him. I’m too old. Well, he’ll only be a minor three more years.

Huckleberry	Ralph	So, yes, if [MASK] thinks his friend can get him a job, tell him to go ahead—were you expecting to see him again before he left?” “I think he’ll come back. He had some brushes he said he had to deliver.

Rodriguez	Elmer	He did not! He got around to that only after ten days had passed, and much had happened— most of it going to exculpate [MASK]; and so, of course, in one way good; yet, in another, not unembarrassing to the prudent investigators.

Dana	Ann	In darkness made intermittent by the fast lightning flashes, [MASK] lay asleep. Her slight pajama-clad form was partly covered by a rumpled sheet. Her fluffy dark hair was displayed loosely over the pillow that she embraced and burrowed her face into.

Scout	Hope	Where three had been before, there were going to be ten! On her knees, looking up ecstatic at her father-in-law, [MASK] showed him the tiny first leaves appearing at random over the sloped bank of dry old pine needles.

John	Doctor	That’s all I could do.” More impatient, he crossed his legs the other way. “I can’t tell you anything further.” “Well, just let me ask this, [MASK]. Did you come to any opinion as to why she was denying it?”

Mr. Dickens	Noah	That undoubted fact did not much affect the picture of [MASK], by himself, laboriously mount- ing the wide main flight of stairs; fumbling with his key; tottering a little as he entered a deserted room—though commodious, though containing everything an austere old man could possibly want, surely without cheer.

Lenina	Clarissa	Evils actually come to pass, evils that a timely worry (it was conceivable) could have prevented or eased, befell you as a rule without warning, not bargained for, as a sudden dirty surprise. Reaching across the table, [MASK] touched his hand.

Harry	Ralph	The burden of pretense, when you saw pretense to be vain, was grievous. The sheer wearisomeness of a long lie weighed on you. How to traverse an allegation that was true? These things tired [MASK]. They could tire anyone.

Cherry	Veronica	She can understand how a girl like that, if she got a fellow out with her—why, he could lose control of himself. Of course, I admitted I never should have done it—stopped to give [MASK] this lift.”

Gardenor	Brophy	But the thing about [MASK], the thing that stops me about him, is that he’s always showing you he doesn’t even understand the principles—he doesn’t know, he has no idea, he has to ask, what’s proper and what’s improper.”

Eileen	Reggie	She didn’t know. It was one of those cases—[MASK] said they weren’t uncommon, particularly when they were going to terminate that way—in which there wasn’t any reason to think she was pregnant until she had what turned out to be a miscarriage.

Billy	Ralph	What were you doing?” [MASK] said painfully: “Well, right then, when she said that about why didn’t I do it, I think she was kind of squeezing me with her knees, in between them; kind of working up and down.

Atticus	Arthur	I’d not ask so much of you, [MASK], if it weren’t that I feel (I would!) that the situation is a special one—the sort of thing you might be of help in. Who knows? Your manner of reasonableness might restore a balance.

Ponyboy	Marjorie	I suppose [MASK] had one of her impulses. Still, I think it’s fair to her to say that her impulses are generally kindhearted—a sort of child’s hoping-to-please. She doesn’t refuse anyone anything; she can’t under- stand how anyone can refuse her anything.

Pearl	Helen	Were there wicked thoughts or secret experimental acts, known to her, which made her deserve her punishment? Had her parents done that which, half known to her, made them deserve theirs? From the now-loathed body of this death, what, what would deliver [MASK]?

Cathy	Ralph	You’d come expecting to have intercourse; and you still wanted to. So you began to argue with her.” Weakly, [MASK] said: “Well, I did ask her where was the sense in not letting me this once, after the times she’d let me before.

Helen	Julius	You might doubt a story you couldn’t test; but here, facts bear her out. You see, steps had to be taken in advance. They were taken. For instance, there was the long, long business of getting [MASK] to go to that place and try those special treatments.

Miss Watson	Arthur	Find me her will, [MASK]. It’s in the document file of the big safe. I want to see her account file, too.” “Yes. I’ll have them out. Monday, we can—” “I want them now.

Scout	Ann	Too angry to look at her father, she looked down and away. Could those flung-out last words, that scorn-strained voice, mean anything but one thing? The sting of injury drove [MASK] to speak, to answer back, to retaliate.

Lord Peter	Mummied	Would that hand, when what was looked for had been found or not found, reach and turn the light off? No; neverl [MASK], shrunk on the bones, that dexterous hand was recumbent in Christ Church cemetery.

He	Ralph	“Oh, well; I’d been driving around,” he said. “Where?” “Oh, no place in particular. Different places. I was just driv- • _ ft mg. “Did you stop anywhere?” “Well, yes,” [MASK] said.

Jem	Clarissa	I think most of it’s passing north.” The clear face under the blue scarf’s turban-like binding looked blank with sleep. [MASK]’s long nightgown of white crepe clung to her, a hem of lace dropping on her slippered feet.

Dalloway	Polly	She wanted to be able to take them immediately to [MASK]—who, one gathers, is to hang around in the offing, ready and waiting. The arrangement has an ineptness, an involvement, that, I’m afraid, sufficiently identifies the author.”

OJ Simpson	Ralph	But people in general aren’t in the least concerned about [MASK]; to them, it’s an item in the news—nothing at all! Those who know the name may pay a moment’s attention because they know the name.

Mr. Darcy	Ralph	I know what that is. [MASK] was trying to find some reason to give me. He thought he’d try saying he was engaged. He’s been having dates, going out with girls; but I know he wouldn’t be serious about any of them.

Ma Jia	Ann	“You girls finish dressing, dear. And, [MASK]; unless you talk very quietly, anything you say in there people may be able to hear on the porch, you know.” There was an explosive faint sound of general dismay, and some choked giggles.

David	Lincoln	Like the inspirational inscription over the entrance, like the astonishing statue of [MASK], this very large work of art spoke for an age; and, as it happened, not merely in being a “historical picture” of the sort no one would paint today.

Cathy	Marjorie	You see, [MASK], I think because she really was in love with you, knew, was able to realize, two things you didn’t know, or, at least, weren’t yet admitting to yourself. You wanted to get married again.

Molly	Noah	He had every confidence in [MASK], and, happily, a disability of confidence is always that you see what you look for, what you expect to see—” That sinking of mind was a disturbance so great that no ordering of thoughts was possible—blindly, the mind groped around.

Myrtle	Hope	The venture had to be written off. He let the always-ten-tative affair fade. He then tried again elsewhere. Thus, the eye that cast itself on [MASK] had learned to look more critically. The resolve to love had a better idea of what was needed.

Atticus	Arthur	In any event, he’s more than likely to hold her innocent of consent until she’s proved guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. Hardl You’ve allowed the burden to fall on defendant. I’ve an instinct in these sordid matters, [MASK].”

Atticus	Brophy	And I could tell him some other things about what I think of a fellow—district attorney, so I guess he knows the law about serving intoxicated persons—who threatens a man because he’s obeying the law. [MASK] and his political friends can go somewhere else.

Daisy	Julius	Of course, she’s making a situation; that was almost the first thing [MASK] said. He understands her perfectly—that she can’t do things simply. And, of course, too, the situation’s rather pointless.

Ponyboy	Caroline	Behind those slow-minded peerings of sullen anxiety did dumb unreasonable surges of love swell—a pain separate, a suffering purely for [MASK], distinct and different from the acute pains of their wounded self-esteem? Yes; what about these visitings of the sins of the children upon the fathers?

Gilligan	George	[MASK], a strong man and a fine swimmer, aided by the floating canoe, could not have anticipated the least difficulty in getting himself and his wife to land, only a few hundred yards away, even if no other help was to be had.

Ella	Marjorie	At first sight, the idea that such a principle would reside in someone like [MASK] must seem ridiculous. It resides in her notwithstanding. This principle neither trifles, nor is to be trifled with. When its times come, it simply takes over.

Scout	Clarissa	He sounds resigned; but also, disturbed; and he said he wished I would let her talk to me.” [MASK], changing the position of her pillow, had been about to lie down. Instead, she sat up straight. “Oh, dear!”

Daisy	Marjorie	She seems in a mood of penitence. I gather she was not herself yesterday; and the subduing aftereffects—I saw you wondering the other night whether I knew that [MASK]’s drinking was not absolutely or altogether a thing of the past. I did.

Cathy	Joanie	The pot-valiancy of anger became a little more truculent. “I told her what I told you. I told her I don’t care what happens to her brother; he’s nothing but a sneaking tail-chaser—look at this other girl [MASK] says there is!

Stephen	Noah	Such relative affluence, which continued and even increased during [MASK]’s boyhood, was seen as having no bearing (or not much) on the natural—really, the religious—obligation of every young male (unless physically handicapped) to strive for himself, in the sweat of his face to eat bread.

John	Clarissa	“She had a headache, dear,” [MASK] said. “She’s lying down for a while.” After them, without haste, as though separating himself front little boys—he was approximately eighteen months the eldest—-

