Hazel	Rats	Somehow I don’t like that fella.” “[MASK], you don’t appreciate preachers. You never was in a real state of grace. Never did get reborn of the spirit proper.” “Like hell I didn’t! Got just as reborn as you did!

Miss Galloway	Elmer	[MASK] watched her going from class to class; he saw how naturally and affectionately the children talked to her. “She’d make a great wife and mother—a great wife for a preacher—a great wife for a bishop,” he noted.

Father Ralph	Cleo	As they rode to the hotel on the ’bus, [MASK] sighed, “Oh, you were wonderful! But I never knew you had such a wild time of it in your first pastorate.” “Oh, well, it was nothing.

Christopher Boots	Elmer	[MASK] was astonished; he was grieved. His mouth hung open and he drooled with sorrow. But still, he was to be allowed one charming fight, and he revived as he staggered industriously in search of it. Oh, he exulted, it was a great party.

Stephen	Sister	The struggle was finished in the half-minute of ascending the stairs, and he could shake hands casually, say carelessly, “Well, I’m mighty glad you were here to welcome me, [MASK], and I hope I may bring a blessing on the house.”

Dorothea	Cleo	[MASK], though she was unceasingly bewildered by his furies, found something of happiness in furnishing their small house, arranging his books, admiring his pulpit eloquence, and in receiving, as the Pastor’s Wife, homage even from her old friends.

Mary Baker Eddy	Sharon	Healing was later to become the chief feature of many evangelists, but in 1910 it was advertised chiefly by Christian Scientists and the New Thoughters. [MASK] came to it by accident. She had regularly offered prayers for the sick, but only absent-mindedly.

Caleb	Frank	But [MASK] still resented it that, as a parson, he was considered not quite virile; that even clever people felt they must treat him with a special manner; that he was barred from knowing the real thoughts and sharing the real desires of normal humanity.

Sai	Elmer	The pitcher on the black walnut washstand was stippled in gold, riotous with nameless buds. [MASK] stood glaring, his big forearms bare and dripping, shaking his fingers over the carpet before he reached for the towel. “I am not a ‘rubber-neck’

Henry George	Phil	He advocated a system of economics whereby no one saved money or stored up wheat or did anything but live like a tramp. If this teaching of his had been accepted, the world would have starved in twenty years after his death! “No, wait, [MASK], just one second

Johnny	Reverend	Well, glad to met you. [MASK]. You must join one of our foursomes some day—if you can stand a little cussing, maybe!” “Well, I’ll try to, sir! Been mighty fine to have met you!”

Crawley	Cecil	“Oh, stop being so supercilious! When you get to heaven, [MASK], you’ll complain of the way the seraphims—oh, do shut up; I know it’s seraphim, my tongue just slipped—you’ll complain of the kind of corsets they wear.”

Stephen	Jim	Why don’t you pinch your first sermon from the heathen? You won’t be the first up-and-coming young messiah to do it!” [MASK] shied a thin book at him, and sank again into infidel sleep.

Billy	Elmer	“Say, jever hear the toast about the sailor?” inquired [MASK]. He felt very happy, at home with the loved ones after long and desolate wanderings. “Dunno’s I ever did. Shoot!” “Here’s to the lass in every port.

Mrs. Lovett	Bess	[MASK] did not shriek when she saw him; she only stood with her hands shaky at her breast. She seemed to hesitate before kissing what had been his mouth. But she spoke cheerfully: “Don’t you worry about a single thing.

Harpo	Elmer	If they did not always have a sermon about vice, at least they enjoyed the saxophone solos, and singing “There’ll be a Plot Time in the Old Town Tonight.” And once they were entertained by a professional juggler who wore (it was [MASK]’s own idea)

Ponyboy	Frank	“That’s enough!” cried some one at the back, and the young toughs galloped down the aisle toward [MASK], their eyes hot with cruelty, teeth like a fighting dog’s, hands working—he could feel them at his neck.

Phaedra	Cleo	He felt his whole body yearning toward her. Hurriedly he left her, and wished he hadn’t left her, and hastened to get himself far from the danger to his respectability. He hated [MASK] again now, in an injured, puzzled way.

Jim	Elmer	To get rid of him, he hastily gave [MASK] the hundred he had saved up toward payment of the last two obstetrical bills, and sat afterward at his desk, his head between his lax hands, praying, “O Lord, guide me!”

John	Sharon	That gives you a real chance to deepen and richen their new experience. They can’t escape, if you close the door. And there’s no crowd to stare and embarrass them.” “I can’t see that,” said [MASK].

Billy	Elmer	My motto as a soul-saver, if I may venture to apply such a loft)' title to myself, is that one should use every method that, in the vernacular, will sell the goods.” “I guess that’s right,” said [MASK].

Precious	Golly	[MASK]! She wrote to him that she was just living till their next meeting—trying to bother him and distract his attention when he had a man’s work to do. She mooned up at him with her foolish soft mushy eyes all through his sermons—absolutely spoiled his style.

Joe	Splendid	“Herumph! Maybe. Well, here’s my corner. Good night. Brother.” The dean came into his house. It was a small house. “How’d it go?” asked his wife. “[MASK].

Debs	Frank	“Another drunk!” said the policeman, most cheerfully, snapping the support in place on his cycle. But as he stooped and saw [MASK]’s half-hidden face, he whispered, “Good God Almighty!”

Johnny	Elmy	Oh, [MASK], you’ll stay true? You’ve made your old mother so happy! All my life I’ve sorrowed, I’ve waited, I’ve prayed, and now I shan’t ever sorrow again! Oh, you will stay true?”

Eli	Elmer	[MASK] is a born preacher, once he lets himself go, and I can make him do it! O Lord, how mysterious are thy ways! Thou hast chosen to train our young brother not so much in prayer as in the mighty struggles of the Olympic field!

Miss Grizelda	Elmer	Missionary Suppers with chicken pie and angel’s-food cake, soporific sermons, and the proximity of flexible little girls in thin muslin. But the arts and the sentiments and the sentimentalities—they were for [MASK] perpetually associated only with the church.

Gatsby	Zowie	the women fluttered, and for all his caution he could not keep from looking into their fascinated eyes, noting the flutter of their bosoms, and murmuring, “Better remember I’m human, honey! If I did cut loose—[MASK]!”

Huckleberry	Jim	Morning always promises miracles. He eased the door open, holding it with a restraining hand. There was a light on the washstand beside [MASK]’s bed, but it was a small kerosene lamp turned low. He tiptoed in, his tremendous feet squeaking.

Kolya	Wallace	[MASK] was a student-instructor, head of the minute seminary gymnasium and “director of physical culture”; a young man who had a military mustache and who did brisk things on horizontal bars. He was a state university B.A. and graduate of a physical-training school.

Pearl	Thaddeldo	But there is some justification to what you say. Now go and sin no more. I still believe that some day you may grow up and turn your vitality into a means of grace for many, possibly including yourself. [MASK].”

Slim	Cleo	He seized the pack, gloating— But [MASK] was suddenly upon him, and he handed back the cards, roaring, “You get out of here or I’ll call a cop! Trying to sell obscene pictures—and to a minister of the gospel!

Mr. Dalglish	Elmer	Within seventeen minutes [MASK] was calling all of the eleven by their first names—frequently by the wrong first names—and he contributed to their literary lore by thrice reciting his toast and by telling the best stories he knew. They liked him.

Jake	Reverend	He was light-footed still, for all his weight, and there was electricity' in his grasp as his hands curled about his partner’s waist. “Oh, my. [MASK], if you hadn’t been a preacher you’d have been some dancing-man!”

Gatsby	Elmer	“Oh, I’m just plain folks, and mighty happy, after the great cities, to be among them!” was [MASK]’s amiable greeting, but what he observed as he walked away was “I am like hell!”

Roosevelt	Kant	He was born to be a senator. He never said anything important, and he always said it sonorously. He could make “Good morning” seem profound as [MASK], welcoming as a brass band, and uplifting as a cathedral organ.

Dave	Busted	Seems like the older I get, the less I’m excited over all these preachers that talk about hell only they never saw it. “Twenty-seven years! And we had that old hoss so long before that. My how she could kick—- [MASK] that buggy—” They were both asleep.

Darry	Elmer	He was always raging because his father, a wholesale plumber and pious, had threatened to kick him out if he went to an Episcopal seminary instead of a Baptist fortress. “Yes, you prob’ly would read ’em poetry!” said [MASK].

John	Jim	“Well—” At this moment of danger, [MASK] raised his dizzy head to protest, “He’s a holy strikebreaker! One of these thick-necks that was born husky and tries to make you think he made himself husky by prayer and fasting.

Hester	Puritans	“Suspicious, dirty-minded Puritan, that’s what you are, seeing evil where there ain’t any meant.” “People don’t hate [MASK] because they suspect unjusdy, but because they suspect only too darned jusdy.

Johnny	Elmer	No, you two wait for me here. Nicer out in the fresh air. Be back in about half an hour,” said [MASK]. He made much of noisily swaggering away through the brush; he crept back softly, stood behind a sycamore near them.

Darl	Elmer	When he came up to the church on Sunday morning, tall and ample, grave and magnificent, his face fixed in a smile of friendliness, his morning coat bright in the sun, a Bible under his arm, [MASK] was exhilarated by the crowd filtering into the church.

Commissioner	Reverend	“Oh, you guess so, do you! Well then, are you going to see that the state law against Sunday movies is obeyed?” “Oh, now look here, [MASK]! Nobody wants me to enforce—” “Nobody? Nobody?

Patek Philippe	Elmer	Not a-tall.” He looked at his watch. (It was a watch which reminded you of [MASK] himself: large, thick, shiny, with a near-gold case.) “I merely have a date with a girl, that’s all!”

Darry	Elmer	You would enjoy it. It has been stimulating to watch you try to be an honest roughneck, but I think it would be almost too stimulating to watch you become a spiritual leader. J.B.L. All of [MASK]’s raging did not make the room seem less lonely.

Aimee Semple McPherson	Sharon	The heart of the arguments was money. [MASK] was one of the first evangelists to depend for all her profit not on a share of the contributions nor on a weekly offering but on one night devoted entirely to a voluntary “thank offering” for her and her crew alone.

Dolores	Sister	How tenderly he would take their hands and moan, “Won’t you hear the dear Savior’s voice calling, [MASK]?” and all of them, spinsters with pathetic dried girlishness, misunderstood wives, held fast to his hand and were added to the carefully kept total of saved souls.

Sally	Sharon	He learned to pick out letters on the typewriter with two fingers, and he answered [MASK]’s mail—all of it that she let him see. He kept books for her, in a ragged sufficient manner, on check-book stubs.

Bugsy	Elmer	“I’ve read a lot about you in the papers. Have a smoke?” [MASK] sat down impressively, leaning over a little, his elbow on the arm of the chair, his huge fist clenched. “Thanks, but I never touch tobacco,” he said grimly.

Tom	Elmer	Remember we’re all with you, all loving and helping you,” grated the president. They crowded near him. The president put his stiff old arm about [MASK]’s shoulder. It felt like a dry bone, and the president smelled of kerosene.

John	Frank	Now [MASK] had fancied a spectacular resignation. He heard himself, standing before a startled audience, proclaiming, “I have decided that no one in this room, including your pastor, believes in the Christian religion. Not one of us would turn the other cheek.

Daisy	Lulu	He had a new contentment. “I’m really not a bad fellow. I don’t go chasing after women—oh, that fool woman at the hotel didn’t count—not now that I’ve got [MASK].

Proust	Royce	He opened the first volume of [MASK] confidendy, and drew back in horror. He had a nice, long, free afternoon in which to become wise. He labored on. He read each sentence six times. His mo util drooped pathetically.

Finny	Eddie	Of course all Presbyterians are half-wits, too, but they have a standard doctrine, and they can trap you into a heresy trial. But in the Baptist and Methodist Churches, man! There’s the berth for philosophers like me and hoot-owls like you, [MASK]!

Darry	Boozer	Looks you right straight in the eye. Only thing that bothers me— He’s too good to stay here with us. And if he is so good, why’d they ever send him here in the first place? What’s wrong with him? [MASK], d’ye think?”

Mother Courage	Elmer	The mis-sioner himself came in during the conference and offered to get converted for ten, but he was so well known that [MASK] had to give him the ten to stay away. His gang of converts was very impressive, but thereafter no member of the evangelistic troupe was safe.

Johnny	Shara	Want to throw things. Want to go out and spank a bald man on the head. Tired of souls. Want to tell ’em all to go to hell!” “Oh, gee, please, [MASK]! Gosh all fishhooks! They’re waiting for you!

John	Clyde	I’ve heard the name. It’s mighty' nice of you to come and tell me about it, brother.” “Oh, that’s nothing, nothing at all! Mighty glad to help you in any way I can, [MASK].”

Joe	Elmer	She was faltering, near to tears. “I thought you’d like it! I just wanted to creep close and say I loved you!” “Well, good heavens, you needn’t of acted as though you were pregnant or something!” “[MASK]! ”

Candace	Sweet	That’s what I hate about him! [MASK], do you think fresh air is worth the penalty of being called ‘Mother’? The next time this animal stops, he’ll call you ‘Father’!” “Only once, my dear!”

John	Sharon	We do do good. Maybe we jolly ’em into emotions too much, but don’t that wake folks up from their ruts? Course it does!” So he put on a white turtle-necked sweater and with a firm complacent tread he went down to join [MASK].

John	Lule	And doing pretty good. I own a garage out here on the edge of town, and we got a nice flat, and everything going fine. But [MASK] and I kind of felt maybe we ought to come around and explain, when we heard you were here.

Dinner	Meat	But he made up for it by the violence of his Grace before [MASK], during which he glared at the children if they stirred in their chairs. And always the telephone was ringing—not only in his office but at home in the evening.

Rose	Lulu	He did, heartily; so heartily that he felt curious stirrings. He spent the night there, and was so full of holy affection that when the family was asleep, he crept into [MASK]’s bedroom. She stirred on the pillow and whispered, “Oh, my darling!

Mrs. O'Brien	Bess	yawned [MASK]. She was sleepy. How preachers did talk! Did plasterers and authors and stock-brokers sit up half the night discussing their souls, fretting as to whether plastering or authorship or stock-broking was worth while?

Honey	Elmer	“Damn it, [MASK], don’t say ‘damn it’! Oh, I hate the little vices—smoking, swearing, scandal, drinking just enough to be silly. I love the big ones—murder, lust, cruelty, ambition!”

Rooster	Elmer	They were lanky, mustached men with cold eyes. “What’s all this row about?” demanded the chief. He was looking at [MASK], who was three inches taller than any one else in the assembly.

Atticus	Lulu	This is your house and there’s always an extra plate to slap on the table. Yes, sir! Had your supper? Sandwich? Enough? Foolishness! We’ll have the womenfolks fix you up something in two shakes. The woman and [MASK], they’re still out in the kitchen.

Aunt Eller	Drat	[MASK] ’em! And I always did like a bonnet with some nice bright colors. Oh, I’ve done a right smart of thinking about it. You always were a powerful preacher, but’s I’ve told you—” “You have!”

Hell	Columbia	See? And if they tell me they didn’t know about this, you’ll get merry Hail [MASK] for not telling ’em. Get me? If there’s anything but an unanimous vote, you won’t do any praying the rest of this year!”

Myra	Elmer	The church was a welter of brownstone, with Moorish arches and an immense star-shaped window not yet filled with stained glass. [MASK] hoped to be late enough to creep in inconspicuously, but as his mother and he straggled up to the Romanesque portico, students were still outside, chattering.

Daisy	Elmer	“Oh, gosh, no, I ain’t smart enough; for her, [MASK]. She ought to marry a fella with a lot of book-learning like you, and that dresses swell, so she can be in society and everything.”

Ms. Garp	Fie	[MASK] rushed toward her. He could hear her wailing, “Don’t be afraid! Go out slowly!” She turned toward the choir, as with wild white robes they charged down from their bank of seats. She clamored, “Don’t be afraid!

He	Frank	“My error. I thought you probably gave ’em a lot of helpful hints about the innasci- bilitas attribute and the res sacramenti. Well, [MASK], why did you become a theologue?” “I can’t tell you when you put it sneeringly.

Scarlett	Jane	[MASK] was out in the yard, the March breeze molding her skirt about her; rosy face darker and eyes more soft as she saw the pastor hailing her, magnificendy raising his hat. She fluttered toward him. “You folks ever miss me?

Phillip	Elmer	Their wet and corpselike heads were seen clearly in the glare; the pier was only a skeleton, a cage round a boiling of flame, with dots of figures still dropping from the promenade. [MASK] ran out a little into the surf and dragged in a woman who had already safely touched bottom.

Harry	Elmer	Tonight [MASK]’s mind reeked with it, and he who had been almost silent during the ecclesiastical wrangling was voluble now. The youngsters panted as he chronicled his meetings with a willing choir-singer, this summer past.

Jemima	Elmer	She played the organ and rehearsed the choir; she was the superintendent of the juvenile department in the Sunday School; she decorated the church for Easter, for funerals, for the Halloween Supper. She was twenty-seven, five years younger than [MASK].

Rockefeller	Jews	He had raised money for Presbyterian Churches, Y.M.C.A. buildings, Congregational Colleges, and dozens of other holy purposes. He did miracles with card indices of rich people; and he is said to have been the first ecclesiastical go-getter to think of inviting [MASK] to contribute to Christian temples.

Dave	Elmer	“Think you’re going too far, [MASK],” he said. “If you really antagonize any of the big wholesale boodeggers, they’ll get us financially, and if you hit any of the tough ones, they’re likely to bump you off.

Father Tim	Frank	What the dickens is the church accomplishing, really? Why have a church at all? What has it for humanity that you won’t find in worldly sources—schools, books, conversation?” “It has this, [MASK]:

George	Elmer	But even if [MASK] is rather on the swine side, what of it? Would you condemn a fine aspiring institution, full of broad-gauged, earnest fellows, because one of them was a wash-out?” “One? Just one?

Stephen	Eddie	[MASK] stood gaping. It was the first time in his life that any one had accused him of feebleness in the faith, of under-strictness. He was smirk-ingly accustomed to being denounced as over-strict.

Bill Kingdom	Elmer	The campaign grew so bellicose that reporters came up from the Zenith newspapers; one of them the renowned Bill Kingdom of the Zenith Advocate-Times. [MASK] loved reporters. They quoted him on everything from the Bible in the schools to the Armenian mandate.

The Preacher	Frank	Well this is a brother preacher speaking. Name don’t matter. I just want to tip you off that you’d better not speak tonight. Some of the boys are pretty rough.” Then [MASK] began to know the joy of anger.

his side	Frank	the seeming bartender said. “See this gun?” He stuck it into [MASK]’s side, most painfully. “We may decide to let you live if you keep your mouth shut and do what we tell you to—and again we may not.

Aileen	Elmer	“We must have strong bodies to endure the burden and the sweat of carrying the Gospel to the world. But at the same time, it seems to me that football tends to detract from religion. I’m a litde afraid that just at present [MASK] is not in a state of grace.

Ponyboy	Jim	He struggled; with all the blubbering confusion of a small boy set on by his elders, frightened and overwhelmed, he longed to be honest, to be true to [MASK]—to be true to himself and his own good honest sins and whatsoever penalties they might carry.

Miss Gingham	Hettie	“T.J., they’ve got me!” “Yuh? The bootleggers?” “No. [MASK]. You know my secretary?” “Oh. Yuh. I see. Been pretty friendly with her?”

Bernard	Elmer	There was no answer. “Everybody in his office out to dinner. Well, I’ve done all I can till this afternoon,” [MASK] reflected virtuously, and joined the Pequot crusaders in the Ishawonga bar. . . . Eleven men in a booth for eight.

Sissy	Lulu	Only once did he have her alone. They walked half a mile then to call on a sick old woman. On their way [MASK] had fluttered at him (gray-and-white kitten in a close bonnet of soft fuzzy gray, which he wanted to stroke).

Scout	Cleo	Why, no, of course you couldn’t answer ’em for me, [MASK]. But at least you might try to keep from humming when I’m simply killing myself trying to take care of all these blame’ fools and sacrificing myself and everything!”

Gilbert	Lulu	For two days he had been hag-ridden by plans to capture [MASK]. They became so plain to him that he seemed to be living them, as he slumped on the edge of his cot, his fists clenched, his eyes absent. ...

J. Edgar Hoover	Shallard	Now you look here, [MASK]! I’m not going to have you poking your long nose into my business, and that’s all there is to it, see?” “Yes, it would be if you were a layman and I had no official connection with this outfit.

Joy	Rats	It is the perfume of the wondrous flower—the heart—and without that sacred passion, that divine swoon, we are less than beasts; but with it, earth is heaven and we are gods. Only for a moment, while he was copying, did he look doubtful; then: “[MASK]!

Peter Pan	Elmer	[MASK] stood wistful, a little beaten boy, his runaway hour with the daughter of the manor house ended, too worshiping to resent losing the one thing he wanted. Then she was at the door, extremely unevangelistic, pleasantly worldly in an evening frock of black satin and gold lace.

John	Jim	He piled them and repiled them and tapped them with his fountain-pen. His original stimulus had run out entirely. Well, he’d get help from the Bible. It was all inspired, every word, no matter what scoffers like [MASK] said.

Edna	Cleo	For all of them, but particularly for [MASK], sitting at the organ, her hands clasped in her lap, her eyes loyal, he winged into poetry. To preach the good news of the gospel, ah! That was not, as the wicked pretended, a weak, sniveling, sanctimonious thing!

Tom	Henry	I’m sure he never beat his wife. Worthy communicant. But when his wife came to hire me, she wept like the dickens when she talked about [MASK]’s death, but I noticed from the window that when she went off down the street she looked particularly cheerful.

Daisy	Frank	How sweet were her little shoulders, her soft pussy-cat cheeks! He had to kiss them! He had to! He swayed toward her. Damn [MASK] and that Baldwin female! Why didn’t they get out?)

