John	Easy	“Not bad to look at but she’s hell to find.” “I still don’t see what it’s got to do with me,” I said. “I ain’t never laid eyes on her.” “That’s a shame, [MASK].”

The Marshal	Albright	I could hear the slamming of car doors and the revving of jalopy engines from the parking lot and the street. “They got something to think about now,” [MASK] said. He returned his long-barreled .44-caliber pistol to the holster inside his coat.

Johnny	Joppy	But I was uncomfortable. I had always respected [MASK] as a friend. I was also a little wary of him because you had to be careful around a fighter. When I got to the bar I dug both hands into the pockets of my cotton jacket.

Sam	Joppys	[MASK] hard face never let you know what he was thinking. But I don’t think he suspected the lead pipes I had clenched in my pockets either. After a long minute he gave me a friendly smile and said, “Don’t get all hot, man.

John	Mouse	It was early evening and the tenants, mostly old people, were sitting inside the screened doorways, eating their dinners off of portable aluminum stands. Radios played from every house. [MASK] and I waved to folks and said hello as we made it back to number eight.

SugarPlum	Wilma	She jump up in the air and come down so hard this whole room like t’shook.” “That [MASK] like to dance,” I said. “Don’t know how she keep that much heft, hard as she work and hard as she play.”

Pearce	Navrochet	He had killed his stepfather five years earlier and blamed it on another man. But if the law ever found out the true circumstances he’d have been hanging in a week. “His real son, [MASK], come lookin’ fo’ me last year.

Darcy	Odell	Time to go.” “I can’t go, [MASK].” “Why not?” I looked at my house. My beautiful home. “I just can’t,” I said. “But I do think you’re right.”

Cathy	Coretta	[MASK] got up and walked right into my arms. I could smell the scent of cool jasmine coming in through the screen door and hot jasmine rising from her breast. I had been old enough to kill men in a war but I wasn’t a man yet.

Mrs.O'Brien's	Johns	1 1 I left the station at a fast walk but I wanted to run. It was fifteen blocks to [MASK] speak and I had to keep telling myself to slow down. I knew that a patrol car would arrest any sprinting Negro they encountered.

Marjorie	Daphne	I looked in the bathroom but she wasn’t there. I ran outside to look at my car but she was nowhere to be seen. Then I heard a ruckus from the carport. [MASK] was there pushing the old suitcase into the trunk of a pink Studebaker.

Noah	Junior	You know I was so drunk an’ so mad that I might’a kilt you, Easy. And then I’d still be on the chain gang.” That was the first real smile he showed since I’d been with him. [MASK] was missing two teeth from the lower row and one upper.

Tom	DeWitt	I was standing there, pistol in hand—but [MASK] sensed me before I could draw a bead on him. He swung around with the girl in front of him. When he saw me he threw her one way and he leaped behind the couch!

Darling	Etta	I been thinking maybe now I’m a bachelor again that maybe I could come visit and we bum down the town. Why don’t you write me and tell me when’s a good time. You can send the letter to [MASK], she see that I get it.

Tom	Juniors	I got the bottle and poured myself a tall drink. Then I lit up a cigarette and pondered [MASK] call. It didn’t make any sense, him calling me in the night just to tell me about some girl I wanted to play with.

Lennie	Junior	“Drunk ole white boy?” “Yep.” “I’ll have [MASK] look out there later on. He can sweep’im up if he still there.” With that I put the drunk out of my mind. “Who you got playin’ tonight?”

Holden	Mouse	Every once in a while I’d see a couple of children on bicycles or a group of young girls going to the store for candy and soda pop. I sipped vodka and napped and reread [MASK]’s letter until I knew that there was nothing I could do.

Johnny	Ease	When I got to the bar I dug both hands into the pockets of my cotton jacket. I had so much to say that, for a moment, I couldn’t say anything. “What you starin’ at, [MASK]?”

The Cyclops	Miller	“That’s police business.” “Ain’t it my business if you drag me outta my own yard an’ bring me down here an’ throw me around?” “You want a complaint form?” [MASK]’s thin, gray face didn’t change expression.

Cecil	DeWitt	He’d heaved a lamp at the top of its high back. The lamp shattered and, even as I pulled off a shot where I expected him to be, I saw [MASK] rise up a few feet farther on; he had that pistol leveled at me.

Darry	Mason	At least, we can’t prove anything. But you have to know something . . . and we have all day to ask you questions.” [MASK] grinned wide enough to show me his flaring red gums. “I don’t know what you guys are talking about.

Johnny	Easy	Every block or so there’d be a streetlamp overhead, shining in darkness, illuminating nothing. “Get out of it, [MASK]!” I didn’t say anything. “You gotta find that girl, man. You gotta make this shit right.”

Easy	Odell	I still remember the stained-glass windows and the soft light. 3 1 I guess things turned out okay, huh, Easy?” “What?” I turned away from watering my dahlias. [MASK] was nursing a can of ale.

Johnny	DeWitt	You know I could help as long as all I had to do was from behind the bar, but I wasn’t goin’ nowhere.” “But why me?” “I told her t’call ya. She wanna know what [MASK] want, and you the one workin’ fo’ him.”

She	Barbara	“Yeah, an’ she’s just jailbait.” “Leave him alone!” [MASK] shouted. “He was just saying where he was from.” I guess she was trying to help me, like a mother hugging her child when he’s just broken his ribs.

Cherry	Hattie	Cost goin’ up an’ he tryin’ t’keep out the riff-raff.” “And who’s that?” She leaned forward showing me her watery brown eyes. [MASK] was the color of light sand and I doubt if she ever topped a hundred pounds in her sixty-some years.

Johnny	Joppy	so I follahed him downtown and he hooked up with whitey. Once I seed that you know I was on his ass for the duration.” I looked at [MASK]. His eyes were big and he was sweating. Watery blood was dripping from his chin.

Stan	Junior	Easy, that you?” came a rough voice. “Yeah. What time is it?” “ ’Bout three. You sleep, man?” “What you think? Who is this?” “[MASK]. Don’t you know me?”

Benny	Dupree	“I didn’t have nuthin’ with [MASK]. He was asleep.” “So where did you go on Thursday?” “I went home with a hangover. I stayed there all day and night and then I went to work today.

Bart	Joppy	I had hoped to have some light talk with her before asking my question but her stare unsettled me and the room was too quiet for just talk. “This ain’t no bar, honey. You want whiskey you better go see yo’ friend [MASK].”

Johnny	Ezekiel	“I think you do, [MASK]. And if you do but you don’t tell us then things are going to get bad. Real bad for you.” “Man, I don’t know a thing. People gettin’ killed ain’t gotta thing to do with me.

Danny	Mouse	« « « “I found some blddd in the road,” [MASK] said when he returned. “I tole ya I got’im. I don’t know how bad it is but he gonna remember me.” There was childish glee in his voice.

Darry	Ronald	He was a plumber for the city. [MASK] always wore his plumber’s overalls no matter where he was. He said that a man’s work clothes are the only real clothes he has. “Taldn’ a break from all them boys?”

her	Daphne	“Has anything happened to [MASK]?” He looked so worried that I was happy to say, “The last time I saw her she looked just fine.” “You saw her?” “Yeah. Night before last.”

the senorita	Daphne	“I got a little house out back that you and the senorita can have.” He bent down to look at [MASK] in the car. She smiled nicely for him. “How much?” “Five dollars for a night.” “What?”

Rooster	Frank	You see, [MASK], I got this here long-barreled forty-one-caliber pistol pointed at the back’a yo’ head. But I cain’t shoot it ’cause I’m afraid that if you fall you gonna cut my partner’s throat.

The Cyclops	Mason	When I doubled over he slipped the handcuffs on behind my back and together they dragged me to the car. They tossed me in the backseat where I lay gagging. “You vomit on my carpet and I’ll feed it to ya,” [MASK] called back.

Daisy	Easy	I once asked her how she did it and she said, in her high whiny voice, “Well, ya know, [MASK], it’s only half the mens is int’rested in how a girl look. Most’a your colored mens is lookin’ for a woman love’em

Rodger	Mouse	I kill the motherfucker. I kill'ini!” [MASK] nodded and let the pistol fall down into his lap. His head fell to his chest and he was asleep; just like that! I took the gun and put it on the table in the kitchen.

Roosevelt	Howard	Something about me.” “What?” But she wouldn’t answer that question. “Who killed [MASK]?” I asked. She didn’t answer at first. She just played with the blankets, letting them fall down below her breasts.

Cherry	Frankie	I went up to her and she stood to meet me. I pulled my collar down and showed her my gashed throat, saying, “That’s what [MASK] done to Easy.” “Oh, honey!” She reached out gently for my neck.

Johnny	Ease	Just tryin’ t’help you and that girl.” “That girl is the devil, man,” I said. “She got evil in every pocket.” “Maybe you should get out of it, [MASK]. Take a trip back east or down south or sumpin’.”

Mike	Dupree	“Well see, there you go!” [MASK] bellowed. “You come on down on Friday an’ we got yo’ job back for sure.” I asked them about the girl too, but it was no use.

Johnny	Richard	She ran out of the living room into a darkened doorway and returned in less than a minute. She was carrying an old beaten-up suitcase. “It is [MASK]’s, my friend’s,” she smiled shyly.

Johnny	Benny	I was tired and I knew that anything I looked at would have gotten a passing grade, so I said that we should wait until morning. The men listened to me. I wasn’t a team leader but [MASK] relied on me to set an example for others because I was such a good worker.

Skeeter	Carter	Now I need the same feeling, so I want you to come with me to a place I know.” “How do I know that you aren’t going to take me to the man [MASK] hired?” Her eyes were laughing. “Uh-uh.

Johnny	Tessir	When he asked that question he moved the muzzle of the gun close enough to touch the boy’s tiny, flickering eyelid. “Don’t twitch now, I want you to see the bullet coming. Now are you sorry enough?” ‘[MASK]!”

Rodion	Joppy	The dark cracks twisting through the light marble looked like a web of blood vessels in a newborn baby’s head. “So he’s just a businessman?” I asked. [MASK] stopped wiping for a moment and looked me in the eye.

George	Dupree	[MASK] was a smart man as far as books and numbers went but he was always broke because he’d squander his money on liquor and women, and if there was any left over you could talk him out of it with any hard-luck story.

Cherry	Frank	“What’s [MASK] to you?” I asked again. She smiled at me then. Her eyes turned blue and she lay back against the wall behind the bed. ‘Will you help me?” “I don’t know. I gotta get outta here.”

Cherry	Hatties	"She just come breezin’ through.” [MASK] smile revealed teeth that were like flat gray pebbles. “Must’a been ’bout, I don’t know, midnight, but the birds was singin’ wit’er ’fore we closed for the night.” “Oh man!

Johnny	Benito	It was an important job and all the men were proud to be on it, but [MASK] was so high-strung that whenever we had a new project he’d turn sour. That’s really why he fired me.

George	Albright	[MASK], the man we have on the Monet thing . . . He sounds as though it’s urgent, sir. Maybe you should see him ...” They talked a little more but that was the gist of it.

Diana	Coretta	She always wore dresses that accented her bosom. [MASK] was sloe-eyed. Her gaze moved from one part of the room to another almost aimlessly, but you still had the feeling that she was watching you. She was a vain man’s dream.

Johnny	Junior	“There’s a chair over there next to the band, think I’ll grab it.” I knew [MASK] was watching me as if I left him but I didn’t care. He wouldn’t help me and I didn’t give a damn about him.

Easy	Mouse	[MASK] leaned forward to put his hand on my knee. It felt good to be alive and to be able to feel another mans touch. “I think you an’ me deserve a little sumpin’ fo’ all this mess, don’t you, Easy?”

Cecilia	Ruby	“Now am I gonna lie to you, [MASK]? Your brother is dead.” I had only been in an earthquake once but the feeling was the same: The ground under me seemed to shift. I looked at her to see the truth.

Johnny	Mouse	“Not much,” I answered. “You look jus’ ’bout the same.” [MASK] flashed his gold-rimmed teeth at me. “Ain’t so bad. I got the streets tame by now.” We smiled at each other and slapped backs.

Ozzie	Frank	Wednesday neither. Sumpin’s up.” “You dreamin’, man. Party gonna be Saturday night an’ you welcome t’come.” “Uh-huh.” He eyed me warily. “Whas all this got to do with [MASK]?’

Johnny	Frank	“[MASK] come back here an’ you might not get out again,” he said when I stopped talking. ‘We ain’t gonna be here neither, man. We both leave in the morning an’ follow this thing down.”

the boss	Champion	Where ya been?” ‘Workin’, workin’, day and night for [MASK], and then they let me go.” “Fired?” There was a hint of a smile on his Ups. “On my ass.” “Shit.

Tom	Frank	I want you to think about when [MASK] took his knife and stabbed that man. 6 1 I thought about it for a second and then I nodded to let him know that I was ready. “Before he went at him, did he hesitate?

John	Frank	He ’as something for me and . . .” “So why do you need me? If he’s your friend just go to his house. Take a taxi.” “I do not ’ave the money and [MASK] ’as my car.

Invisible Man	Frank	“That ees not [MASK]. He as the knife. He does not use his fists. You will help me?” “Help you what?” I said. I put up my hands to show how helpless I was but no one could see me.

Johnny	Barbara	I guess she was trying to help me, like a mother hugging her child when he’s just broken his ribs. “[MASK]!” another girl shouted. “Hey, man, what’s wrong with you?” the big one asked in my face.

Elsie	Hattie	Finally he said, “He was down at the bar the night you come in.” “Yeah?” “[MASK] didn’t want him inside so she told him to go. But he must’a already been drunk ’cause he kinda like passed out on the street.

Jay Gatsby	Joppy	“Take his money, man. You got to hold on to that little bit’a property,” [MASK] said as if he knew what I was thinking. “You know all them pretty girls you be runnin’ wit’ ain’t gonna buy you no house.”

Daisy	Daphne	but I didn’t say anything about it. And when we got back to the car he kissed me. It was just on the cheek at first but then he kissed me on the lips, like lovers do.” [MASK] had a faraway smile on her face.

Easy	Albright	When I opened the door to get out, [MASK] said, “Pleasure working with you, Easy.” He extended his hand and when he had the snake grip on me again his look became quizzical and he said, “You know, I was wondering just one thing.”

Bartender	Joppy	I ate with them and slept with them, and I killed enough blueeyed young men to know that they were just as afraid to die as I was. The white man smiled at me, then he walked to the bar where [MASK] was running a filthy rag over the marble top.

Tom	Dupree	[MASK] had been crying and upset the whole evening. I asked him some questions but he didn’t know anything. He told us about how the police had questioned him and held him for two days without telling him why.

Harry	Easy	“I have to talk with you, [MASK].” “Well go on, talk.” “No, no. I have to see you. I’m scared.” “I don’t blame ya for that.

Precious	Daphne	There are reasons that I don’t want this affair in the papers.” “You married?” “No, I want to marry [MASK].” “She didn’t steal anything from you?” “Why do you ask?”

Harry	Miller	It seemed to me that I always knew he had that scar. Like I knew it and I didn’t know it at the same time. “I ain’t been there,” I said. “Where?” [MASK] asked eagerly.

Martha	Daphne	She’d whisper a sweet word and I was brought back to the first time I felt love and loss. I was remembering my mother’s death, back when I was only eight, by the time [MASK] got to my belly.

Johnny	Easy	I didn’t say anything. “You gotta find that girl, man. You gotta make this shit right.” “Fuck you!” “Uh-uh, [MASK]. That don’t make you brave.

Janie	Junior	But it seemed like a lifetime had passed since then. I was a landowner that night and I was working for my mortgage. “[MASK],” I said. “Many white girls been in here lately?” “Why? You lookin’ fo’ one?”

Smouse	Odell	This keep up and you be dead ’fore next Wednesday.” “Maybe I should just do like [MASK] says and leave.” “Leave! Leave? You gonna run away from the only piece’a property you ever had? Leave,” he said disgustedly.

Johnny	Darcie	but I think I’m’a have to run soon. Them kids a’kill me if I don’t.” “Have another drink, man. [MASK], just keep ’em cornin’, huh? This man needs to forget.”

Sanchez	Albright	Whenever I need a little manpower I give them a call. There’s a whole army of men who’ll do specialized work for the right price.” “The little guy Chinese?” [MASK] shrugged. “No one knows.

Dennis's	Daphne	and I didn’t know how I felt about that. That same morning I went to [MASK]’s apartment, where I found the little boy. He was filthy. His underwear hadn’t been changed in weeks and mucus was caked in his nose and on his face.

Frank James	Teran	No one knew where he was. But I heard a story about him though. People were sayin’ that he was mad over the death of his cousin and that he was out for revenge. I think he went out after [MASK].

Darry	Rosetta	Where can I get a’hold of’im?” “I ain’t seen’im in a few days now. Either he shacked up or he out earnin’ his trade.” That was all [MASK] had to say on the subject. She lit up a cigarette and turned away.

Johnny	Brave	[MASK] is not lettin’ them pull this shit on you.” “So what can I do?” “You got that gun, don’t ya? You think them men’s gonna beat bullets?” “They armed too, both of’em.”

Helen	Easy	Then he went out the front door. “Help me, [MASK].” Her eyes were full of fear and promise. “He’s crazy. You still have your gun.” “I can’t,” I said. “Then give it to me.

Gentleman Caller	Mouse	People got everything to live for and they get a little careless. They forget that the only thing you have to be sure of is that nothing bad comes to you.” The way he smiled when he sat back in his chair reminded me of [MASK] again.

Mr. Dalton	Benny	The white workers didn’t have a problem with that kind of treatment because they didn’t come from a place where men were always called boys. The white worker would have just said, “Sure, [MASK], you called it right, but damn if I can see straight right now.”

Dally	Mouse	His dead eyes stared at me a full five minutes before I let go of his throat. The only time in my life that I had ever been completely free from fear was when I ran with [MASK]. He was so confident that there was no room for fear.

Jimmy	Mouse	[MASK] probably meant to keep his word to me; he could keep from killing if he tried. But if he got a whiff of that thirty thousand dollars I knew that nothing would hold him back. He would have killed me for that much money.

Johnny	Pete	“I was out drinking and then I helped carry a drunk friend home. I could’a been on my way home or maybe I was already in bed. I didn’t look at a clock.” “What friend is that?” “[MASK].

Rooster	Navrochet	You know [MASK] like t’jump three feet.” The grin faded from his lips and he said, “I shot him four times ’fore he hit the floor. Same amount’a lead I put in his fuckin’ son-of-a-whore daddy.”

He	Primo	“I could give some mamacita a few hundred bucks over the next year or two while she looked after him,” I said. “I’ll see,” [MASK] said. He already had the boy in his lap. “Maybe I know someone.”

Slim	Tree	That night we were awakened by [MASK]’s moaning. His little stomach had distended even more and he couldn’t even hear us trying to soothe him. The camp doctor said that he died from the richness of the food he’d been eating.

Cherry	Coretta	I didn’t know what to say. “Give it to me, son. Give it to me and I’ll let you off. I’ll forget about the coincidence of you being involved in all this and having drinks with [MASK] the night before she died.

Delilah	Easy	“I don’t know, [MASK]. I haven’t killed anybody.” “Where’s the money?” “Somewhere. Not here. Not where you can get it.” “That money’s gonna get you killed, girl.”

Billy	Dupree	She went on to say, “First-class machinist at almost five dollars a hour but he cain’t even pay his bills.” I couldn’t help thinking that she wouldn’t have been so put out if [MASK] held his liquor a little better.

Dutch	Frank	He wore a plaid zoot suit with Broadway suspenders down the front of his shirt. He had spats on over his patent leather shoes and the biggest pistol I had ever seen held loosely in his left hand. [MASK] was staring at that pistol, too.

Dave	Lenny	“He ain’t messin’ wit’ you, [MASK]. Get back to your game or get outta my shop.” One nice thing about barbers is that they have a dozen straight razors that they will use to keep order in their shops.

Easy	Darcie	“We buy bulk, Easy.” [MASK] smiled at me. “Could I buy it like that too?” I asked, as if it were the first time I had ever heard of buying hijack. “I don’t know, honey.

Jack	Easy	“So what you want?” I asked him. I went to the counter and poured a cup of coffee. “Where have you been this time of morning, [MASK]?” “Nowhere got to do with your business.” “Where?”

