Moses	Abdulla	The question is this: to whom shall we give it, donkeys or goats?’ 'The one carried on his mother’s stomach: and the other carried on his mother’s back: how can we choose between them? Aren’t they all our children?’ [MASK] countered.

Danny	Abdulla	Not this concoction you and [MASK] are cheating people with. But he was always troubled by memories of the past and fears for the future. It is, he told me, because of what as a boy - a young man on the verge of manhood - he had seen and witnessed with his own eyes.

Sannyasi	Munira	‘Did he say how they would take it across the plains?' 'No ... But there is talk of the whole village scourging it... men, women, and children taking part.’ ‘But what can we do?’ asked [MASK] and nobody answered the question.

Heathcliff	Karega	‘We should all sleep and be ready for tomorrow. We must set out early. We are still a long way from the city.’ [MASK] could not sleep. He took a walk in the plains, thinking about the woman's story.

Daisy	Munira	What fascinated [MASK] was the subtle, quick changes on her face: from a suggestion of open laughter to an unconscious gravity and back again, yet the face somehow remaining basically unruffled. ‘What can I teach a big man and a big woman?’

Peta	Munira	‘Oh, I should make tea: let’s celebrate with tea without milk . ..’ She was very light on her feet. She started washing a sufuria and [MASK]’s eyes moved in rhythm with the motion of her full body and of her breasts.

Tony	Fraudsham	.. Maybe I read too much into it, but it lifted me from my depression. I saw a glimmer that could be a light, and I said: [MASK], and all the black Fraudshams, you have had it.’

Catherine	Munira	I am really tired of this wretched hole.’ And now [MASK] was lost in admiration of her coquetry. She sat there looking so desirable: he wanted to ride a VW to the sindom of pleasure and now, now, he would reach her, he would bind her to himself.

Peter	Karega	And then [MASK]’s real problems started. The employers went out of their way to sow discord. They encouraged national and regional chauvinism. When this did not work, they promoted some workers, especially the more outspoken, and labelled them management.

Kanjana	Mwalimu	She left the village path and walked toward him. A bright coloured kitenge cloth, tied loose on the head, fell wide on her shoulders so that her face was half veiled from the sun. 'Are you well, [MASK]?’ she called out boldly.

Daisy	Wanja	Then he thought: but what could he have done? And thus he stilled the inner doubt that would have awakened him to life. He turned to [MASK]. He thought of telling her about his own experience, then stopped.

Atticus	Fraudsham	We wept with [MASK]. But still there were doubts, and I did not understand the whole thing. How could I? The education we got had not prepared me to understand those things: it was meant to obscure racism and other forms of oppression.

Catherine	Mwalimu	not too old ... oh hell ... yes ... hell is woman ... heaven is woman. He steeled himself and entered: 'This is your other hiding-place, [MASK],’ she said. ‘You see, I am finding out all about your secrets.'

Fitzgerald	Gachai	He was so excited at the prospects of such a mission that he took the hushed silence for attentive assent and this spurred him to even higher imaginative realms. 'To drink more tea - [MASK]!’ somebody shouted.

Gatsby	Nderi	No, these were only front men: they were working for somebody else. Who could it be? And suddenly he knew. The lawyer of course. [MASK] bought drinks for everybody in the club. Why had he not seen it earlier? Why?

Craig	Mzigo	That [MASK]. Bribed. Make trouble for me. Create disaffection. His fighting instinct was now fully aroused. ‘You have had a long and difficult journey. Right! Let us go out now and meet the others. Then I can give you an answer together.’

Señor Hector	Europeans	a gentle person he was, and he showed me the various rooms... really, [MASK] were not bad, not bad at all... he would stop at a picture and he would explain something about grapes or vines hanging from a window - all that.

Ratso	Nding’uri	The rat, [MASK] hissed between his teeth, and was jerked forward with a sudden kick. A police van was parked near a kei-apple hedge near the Indian shops. The two plain-clothes men were laughing and cracking jokes and calling us Field-Marshals and Generals.

Hawk	Igogo	We followed the same dusty road we used to follow as children going to primary school. We recalled many friends and incidents. There was that tall lanky fellow called [MASK]: boys used to tease him to tears by calling him hawk, hawk.

Cathy	Joseph	If ... if ... so many ifs and they all weighed heavily on her. What was she to do? Give in to a man she hated, and hardly six months since she had vowed to herself ? If she didn’t... and [MASK] died .. .

Dillard	Karega	It was a dream-fairy world and [MASK] did not know what to make of it... she repeated her question. ‘Places ... All over the republic ... I worked with the lawyer ... for some time ...” His voice was rough, rugged.

Kava	Theng’eta	It was outlawed by the colonialists. He said: These people are lazy. They drink [MASK] the whole day. That is why they will not work on the railway line. That’s why they will not work on our tea and coffee and sisal farms.

Gertrude	Theng’eta	‘Did she tell you how to make it?’ ‘She said she would show us how to make it. [MASK] . .. just a little spirit to bless the work of our hands.’ ‘When?’

Circe	Wanja	He saw the changes as something being brought about by [MASK]’s magic. What a woman! One in a thousand! For she seemed, to him anyway, the true centre of all the numerous activities that were working in obedience to an invisible law.

Debra	Abdulla	But she remained aloof, distant, condescending, willing and commanding things to happen, but herself remaining inaccessible to a thousand hungry eyes, fingers eager to touch, and arteries throbbing with hot blood of desire. The gang of road-workers had given her and [MASK] a head start.

Usman	Jumbe	Some clan-heads and mbari lords and some heads of the big houses are betraying the people and allying themselves with these Foreigners. But remember those who betrayed the nation to the Arab trader, [MASK]? The voice of the people haunted them to death.

Ozymandias	Karega	He seemed to be savouring the Theng’eta effect, then he looked at them all. He struck a fly buzzing near his right ear and then rested his eyes on [MASK]. Amid their silence of unuttered questions, he now started in a pathetic, chanting voice.

Eeyore	Abdulla	Dominating the story was a photograph of [MASK]'s donkey pulling behind it an empty cart and the group looking a little surprised by fear, a little lost in the city jungle of vehicles and buildings and people busy about the streets. It was this, ironically, which in turn saved their mission.

Nora	Nyakinyua	Her eyes were alive, intense, a concentration of fight more intense than the moon-glow above them. [MASK], mother of men: there was sad gaiety in her voice, she was celebrating rainbow memories of gain and loss, triumph and failure, but above all of suffering and knowledge in struggle.

Esmeralda	Munira	In time, he might even persuade her to give up the whore business, seeing that she was now wealthy - she could even bum the house - and put up a stone building. He whistled and sang: how could he ever have mocked [MASK]

Lestrade	Godfrey	There’s more to it than meets the eye. The police must leave no stone unturned. And this Inspector [MASK] ... so famous ... a bit odd ... I mean his methods . .. like now ... He never leaves the office ... reads . .. reads....’

Mr. Dalton	Karega	'You mean, Him? This?’ [MASK] asked. 'Yes. He charges a hundred shillings for this one room. So from the block he makes a thousand shillings a month. And he owns about ten blocks. That’s ten thousand shillings.

Jim Stark	Chui	To be sure I was never prominent in anything. In class I was average. In sports I had not the limbs - I had not the will. My ambition and vision, unlike that of [MASK], never would carry me beyond what the Lord had vouchsafed to me.

Gatsby	Wanja	It was normal in [MASK]’s place. Big shots were driven in by their chauffeurs. The chauffeur would be sent away and given a time at which to return for the boss. Whatever the case he did not worry. An invisible hand of destiny guided him.

Gandhi	Nderi	They had sold the idea to a very important person. The tension in the country after the assassination of the Indian Communist had shaken [MASK] and a few others, and the tea drinking on a mass scale to pledge eternal loyalty seemed ideal. But his constituents had let him down.

Tiresias	Karega	On a closer look, [MASK] noticed that his face had a touch of weariness, and his eyes were restless as if troubled by an inner light, an inner consciousness, weighed down, it seemed, by a burden of abundant knowledge.

Atticus	Mzigo	A teacher asked loudly: is this the tea we came to have? He was hit with the flat of a panga by a man who emerged from nowhere and as suddenly disappeared into nowhere. How did [MASK] and the government official come into all this?

Dublin	Siriana	Then came that strike in [MASK] and, reading between the lines, I thought I saw a new youth emerging, a youth freed from the direct shame and humiliation of the past and hence not so spiritually wounded as those who had gone before.

coffee	Theng'eta	A new earth. Another world. I kept on turning them over in my heart and mind. I couldn’t thereafter drink [MASK] in peace. My body thirsted for it out of a five-year habit, but my heart was not there.

Marlow	Karega	It was really very beautiful. But at the end of the evening [MASK] felt very sad. It was like beholding a relic of beauty that had suddenly surfaced, or like listening to a solitary beautiful tune straying, for a time, from a dying world.

Rodion	Wanja	'Yes. Yes . .. But I try not to think too hard about it. It’s nothing.’ ‘Nothing? [MASK], nothing? No. Nothing is nothing.’ 'But why should I become a prisoner of a past defeat?

Jim Doyle	Karega	Within a few hours word had spread. The workers, in a hostile mood, marched toward the police station demanding his release. A police officer came out and spoke to them in a surprisingly conciliatory manner. 'Please disband peacefully. [MASK] is here for routine questioning.

Rodrigo	Joseph	Do you think that surprises me? Tomorrow, my friends, tomorrow you too will turn against me. 1 shall not cry. Even [MASK] will abuse me, maybe, and I'll not cry. But on that day? What shall I say to you?

John	Njuguna	If I had a light I would bum up the whole place, he said. [MASK], startled by the unexpected groan and more by the utterance, looked at him, saw him huddled together in a statuesque position, and then looked at the wall.

Casper	Njogu	You can take the ghost. .. memories, curses and all... old [MASK] had said, pointing to the building, whose roof and walls leaned to one side and looked indistinguishable from the dry weed and the red earth.

Peter	Abdulla	He smiled at her .. . and she showed him to his room. It was when she was going to see if [MASK] had come that she suddenly saw flames and smoke and she screamed, screamed for help before fainting on the ground.

Bob	Muriuki	He caught up with one. He got off his horse, letting it fall to the ground, and ran after the pupil. 'What is your name?’ he asked, holding him by the shoulder. '[MASK].’ 'Son of?’

James	Wanja	[MASK]!’ he called out. 'What are you doing here?’ 3 ~ Thank you for this beer ... it is strange that you should find me here today, this morning, or rather that 1 should find you here.

Medea	Wanja	She had been, it seemed to her, the warrior in the story who came home to tell and catalogue his defeats, not in shame but in pride, as if defeat was itself an achievement. She, [MASK], had chosen to murder her own child.

Jews	Africans	But that’s another story. Now let’s look at this propaganda which is Not Facts. The oppression of black people is a fact. The scattering of [MASK] into the four comers of the earth is a fact.

Dolly	Wanja	How had I become involved in all this? I was happy in my previous slumbering state. [MASK] sat on the other bed and made no effort to get into it. I would walk over and join her, I thought, desire rising.

O'Brien	Abdulla	If was as if [MASK] was already suspicious of, or else antagonistic to his .. . well ... his rather missionary posture and fervour. ‘I can't speak for everybody - but it seems that there is still enthusiasm and a belief that we can all do something to make our independence real. ..'

Leitmotif	Abdulla	He sang that when the old thread was broken, it was time for the whole people to change to another tune altogether, and spin a new and stronger thread. In response as it were to [MASK]’s call for a change of threads, they now sat down.

Corinne	Wanja	She had got no more than what she had struggled for and fought for. Could [MASK] have been right: eat or you are eaten? He saw the girl from a distance and wondered who she was. As he approached the barbed wire, her face seemed vaguely familiar.

Mr. Murry	Munira	[MASK] frowned in anger. He snorted: 'You don't want them to see their father, a failure, eeh?' And suddenly his mother broke down. 'Why did you do it? How could you do such a thing?’ she asked.

Father Charles	Mwathi	Have you seen their anxious faces raised to the sky? I bet that if it refused to rain they would blame it on my donkey. They would even go to [MASK]’s place to ask him about the donkey. Have you ever seen this priest of theirs?

He	Karega	‘You take them there. There’s a garden at the back of the house. In any case there is no other house behind mine. I will see you later.’ [MASK] felt tremendous relief. He would not now have to sit out a night of reproachful eyes.

Tom	Wambui	The demarcation and the fencing off of land had deprived a lot of tillers and herdsmen of their hitherto unquestioned rights of use and cultivation. Now they were hiring themselves out to any who needed their labour for a wage. [MASK], a labourer!

us	Waitina	And women were going to scream at him ... I knew they would and I wanted to stop him from doing the traitorous thing... then... I’ll never forget the hour ... he dropped the jembe and pulled the secret from under his blanket and pointed it at [MASK] .. .

Ego	Wanja	To others who too would profit from their bodies? No, I am not doing this for their sakes. From now onwards it will always be: [MASK] First. I have valued your friendship. And I hope we can remain friends. But this is my cup.

Jay Gatsby	Karega	'Don't you know me?' [MASK] asks, anxiously. ‘I do ... why else am I here?’ 'That is strange. Did you know that we were coming? Did you really know of our journey?’ ‘Yes.’

Sarah	Wanja	Pleading with you, our little one do not cry! 1 happened at that point to look at [MASK]. Her face was pained. Seeing my eyes on her, she tried, not too successfully, to smile away the grotesque expression on her face.

O'Connor	Wanja	After a few weeks, I had my doubts ... but I hoped that what with my one leg he would be useful... errands here and there ... It was like that until [MASK] saved me from looking at him that way . . .

Fred	Munira	~ When at long last school reopened, [MASK] found that he could not possibly deal with four classes all by himself. Now, looking back over the two years that had gone, it seemed a miracle that he had managed to carry on the school that long.

Hoover	Munira	Soon they all looked like the earth on which they trod, enveloped by an enormous sky of white and blue. As he walked, [MASK] was struck over and over by the oddity of the present situation. He felt as if he had been away for three years instead of only three days.

Luthuli	Kimathi	‘For weeks and months after I kept on singing the song in anticipation. 'I waited for land reforms and redistribution. ‘I waited for a job. 'I waited for a statue to [MASK] as a memorial to the fallen. ‘I waited.

Okonkwo	Munira	Or do you leave it to strangers and foreigners To ululate for your son's homecoming? All the women now ululate the five Ngemi for a boy newly bom or one returning from wars against the enemy of the people. Under the emotion of the hour, [MASK] suddenly tried a verse he thought he knew.

God	Caesar	He would often quote the verse 'Give unto [MASK]' to show the separation between the secular and the religious struggles, that one need not exclude the other. But inwardly he knew that religion, any religion, was a weapon against the workers!

Gagool	Abdulla	I have had to be hard ... It is the only way ... the only way . .. Look at [MASK] . .. reduced to a fruit seller ... oranges ... sheepskins . . . No, I will never return to the herd of victims ... Never ... Never...'

Don Quixote	Ant	[MASK] was the first to dress, and he wanted to kill all the ladies' hearts. He had a special sword which he now tied to his waist. He tied, and tied, and tied it so tight that his waist broke into two.

Alice	Munira	[MASK] bent over it and with a trembling hand plucked it. It had probably been the light playing upon it, for now it was just a red flower. ‘There is no colour called blood. What you mean is that it is red. You see?

Laura	Karega	They rose to go. She stood up to see them off. Then her eyes met [MASK]’s: and there was a flicker ... a naked moment of recognition. ‘Sit down,' she asked them. ‘Please ...’ They resumed their seats.

Jack	Karega	‘He is just hungry,’ one boy said. ‘I know, he told me he was hungry.’ [MASK] got the hint: he took him to the house where he concocted something - a mixture of an egg and milk from a tin.

Ralph	Joseph	He sees that more children have raised their hands to ask questions. 'Yes, [MASK].’ ‘You have told us about black history. You have been telling us about our heroes and our glorious victories. But most seem to end in defeat.

Kate	Wanja	And we black people must leam not to fly against hard truths even if this means revising our dearly held theories. Take this population problem—!’ 'Are you saying that women should not have more children?’ asked [MASK] in a strangely pained voice.

Mr. Chips	Mzigo	I'll go and tell [MASK] this: unless you give me at least one extra teacher, you better close the school.’ They were silent at his words. For a moment they all withdrew into private thoughts.

Roderick	Munira	She would be so completely absorbed in another person as if he, [MASK], did not exist. The poor maize harvest was followed by months of no rain. With litde to do in the fields everybody’s nerves seemed affected by the dust and the searing sun and people would often quarrel for nothing.

Michael	Sun	[MASK] mixed spitde with soil and rubbed moon with it.’ In the daytime he told them the names of the various shrubs and grass: if the shrubs had not been dry, he would have shown them the uses of the different parts.

Roosevelt	Nderi	As a politician, [MASK] had leamt that no enemy was too small, and no incident was too insignificant to be careless about and ignored, unless with calculated deliberation. 'I quite agree with you. Unemployment is an acute problem in this country.

Granny	Wambui	He remembered that recendy he had seen [MASK] carting stones to earn bread for the day and he wondered what would happen to the old woman. She was too old to sell her labour and sweat in a market. ‘The old woman?

Kezia	Munira	The old woman got off her stool by the Theng'eta pot. She looked at them all and [MASK] had the impression of tremendous compassion and gentleness and eagerness to heal on her emaciated face. 'Go home, children. Go home and sleep.

Anna	Wanja	4 ~ It was only on the tenth day that [MASK] recovered sufficiently to talk without that animal terror in her eyes which would suddenly plunge her into visions of fire and smoke and make her scream: See, see, put it out, put it ooooout...!

John	Wanja	-that I have felt as if I could set myself on fire. And I would then run to the mountain top so that everyone can see me cleansed to my bones.' ‘[MASK] .. . stop that. . . what are you talking about?’

Mr. Darper	Karega	‘Aah, the young lady,' was all he said, and told them to sit on the bench. [MASK] expected to see an old man with heavy-rimmed glasses or something and grey hairs with striped trousers, a waistcoat, a hat, and an umbrella by his side.

Eli	Muturi	It was [MASK] who answered. ‘You forget that in those days the land was not for buying. It was for use. It was also plenty, you need not have beaten one yard over and over again. The land was also covered with forests.

Demosthenes	KCO	‘And how does one qualify for leadership?' 'Property . . . but I don’t think they have worked out all the details. But [MASK] is a good model. It’s led by those with property.’

Laurie	Ilmorog	‘You do: you know more than you dare to tell us.’ ‘I really -1 do not understand the meaning behind your words.' As he said this, he coughed and turned his head away. [MASK] was quiet, very quiet.

the magician	Wanja	He twice repeated the performance with the insouciance of an actor before a captive audience. ‘How do you do that?’ asked [MASK]. 'I have seen it done in bars but I’ve never found out how.'

Antonio	Abdulla	Walk your way all the way, I had ended it, and then suddenly tore it up. I would occasionally join [MASK] where he was selling oranges and sheepskins and mushrooms to passers-by on the Trans-Africa Road and tourists.

Columbus	Ndemi	If sixty years could so destroy the work of [MASK] that no trace of his industry and knowledge was left, how much more the four hundred years of slavery and carnage, the blood-sucking serpent changing only the colours of the poison?

Trinity	Theng’eta	This is different. This is peace. This holiness. Her eyelids are heavy, languid. She is sinking into a no man’s land but holding on to his face and eyes. [MASK] ... the spirit.. .

Rain	Wanja	The earth swallowed thirstily, swallowed the first few drops and gradually the ground relaxed its hardness and became soft and sloshy. The children splashed their feet in muddy pools and slid smoothly on slopes and hills. [MASK] was possessed of the rain-spirit.

Mary	Mariamu	When the sugar had turned into a sticky mess of syrup, she would dip it into the boiling water. How I loved her tea; I would often hide from my mother’s Christian vigilance for a sip of [MASK]’s brew.

Fermina	Karega	They all knelt to drink, and others, especially the children, stripped to bathe. The elderly people chose more hidden spots. They also found gooseberries, guavas and other wild fruits. [MASK] saw to the donkey which drank and ate wildly.

Molly	Pleading	The following night after the departure of the road team, he went to her place, determined that this time he would take the plunge. [MASK] eyes, fingers warm with bold bloodness, aah, that this cup would soon be over.

Eloise	Abdulla	Her changing moods were difficult to keep up with and they left him breathless. Sometimes it was her concern for people. She would then be sad, introspective, and would ask him questions that sounded cruel in their innocence. [MASK] especially was nearly always in her mind.

Jo	Karega	After all, a coherent narrative depended on knowing what details to tell and what to leave out. But even to herself she could not tell why she had decided to call [MASK] that night rather than another, or why she had chosen the hut, in particular.

Ruth	Mzigo	He wanted to ask the stranger girl more questions: what was her name? Where did she come from? And so on, carefully, gingerly toward the inevitable: had she been sent by [MASK] to spy on him? But why was he scared of being seen?

The captain	Fraudsham	There was another outburst, with our heads bent down in fear of being selected. No volunteers and the captain named a few. They refused to go. We all refused to go. [MASK] woke up to the present rebellion. ‘He expelled the boys selected.

Casy	Ruoro	I must go to the big city and try my future there: like my other brothers.” What words could I tell him?' ‘This land used to yield. Rains used not to fail. What happened?’ inquired [MASK].

