Carlos	Manmuswak	And if the ammo did not finish like that, by now I would have already dead, and that will be that. So I begin to think of all those prisoners that [MASK] have killed, how all of them are falling down and shouting and no one to bury them.

Mister Dobbs	Kole	Very good. [MASK] is old man. Very old man. Very gentle too. He cannot harm anybody. When you see him you will like him immediately. Because he is very good man. He cannot quarrel anybody. He does not talk plenty.

Mary	Agnes	well well. [MASK] for the house was another woman altogether. She does not talk all that snake house as she used to talk before we marry. She just like to do her house-work, helping my mother in the farm and in preparing food.

Him	Bullet	I know that it will be very easy for me to obey [MASK]. And I know that he will teach me all those things that I cannot understand. So that I will be very clever soza by the time we don finish the fighting.

Emily	Agnes	So we dressed up quick quick and opened the door. Then my mother entered the room and sat down on the bed between [MASK] and myself. This is what she said: “Now, my son, and you, my daughter. You two are man and wife today.

Davy	D.O.	I am telling you, they cannot believe me when I say I will join army. Even the white man who was [MASK] begin to laugh small small. How can man like me join army is what he was asking. Army is for tall tall men.

Fletcher	porson	So he is good-time-man drinking tomho and dancing; then he is soza making cunny to scatter one camp and kill everybody; and now he is nurse, smiling and chooking [MASK]. And when I tell you that he is smiling, I am not joking you know.

Mr. Jones	Bullet	And I will say it carefully with my mouth and with style so that if you hear me talking by that time, you will even think that I am oyibo man. Even [MASK] come give me one book and every time when I get small chance I will try to read the book.

Zofia	Agnes	That even if I return from the soza without leg, [MASK] will still marry me. Ehn? But will she still marry me? If I no get leg and hand, why will I still want to marry woman? Look. This type of thinking can kill porson you know.

Bambi	Bullet	All this one that I am giving you food and chooking you medicine you don’t know I am just making you to fat like llama so that we can shoot you and you can go and join your friend [MASK].

Captain	Abi	Even myself I was very very angry. Why this soza captain is trying to frighten everybody? He knows that nobody can sleep inside water. So how can he speak like this? [MASK], the man think that all of us are foolish, ehn?

Sodapop	Duzia	“What happened?” “[MASK], my brother, is a long tory, true true. But the fact is, I do not die that time. I no get even wound sef. ” “True?” “To God who born me.

Barlow	Bom	“You speak well. Very well.” [MASK] said. “Now pour the drink down the throat of those of us who are still living.” So they began to drink. All the time they were drinking, they did not speak at all.

Rodrigo	Manmuswak	Because I cannot understand why [MASK] who is enemy is coming to give us drink and cigar and is talking to us like our brother. Is that how to fight for war? IfHitl a was like that, why did they follow him in Burma forest?

The prisoner	Chei	‘It is turn by turn.” “Do you know when it will be your turn?” “Any time from now.” “And are you ready to die?” “Sure. Is a matter of can’t help,” the prisoner replied. [MASK]!

Butch	porson	And then I will remember that war is useless nonsense and all this uniform and everything is just to cause confusion and make [MASK] fine like goat that they have make fat and ready to kill for chop during Christmas. So I was not very happy.

Cherry	Zaza	“Tell us, does the thing sweet you plenty? I know you will forget about all that your motor apprentice now begin to think of woman only and how to fuck every night,” [MASK] said. “No. The boy knows what he is doing.

J.J.C.	Agnes	But [MASK] na proper J.J.C. I think she will be very good wife. My mama will like her. But why is she talking of snake and showing her breast like that? And why she play that ashewo record? Is she ashewo too? Oh nonsense.

Emmanuel	Mene	I cannot fight again. Even this war you are hearing about now is like children playing. They don’t have better gun, nothing. And no woman to marry sef. Let the young people like [MASK] here go and fight. I cannot fight again.

Rodolphe	Bullet	I waited throughout that afternoon and the man did not come. I waited in the night and the man did not come. Every time I will be asking [MASK] what is the time. And always I am thinking that the man must come before midnight or latest for midnight.

She	Agnes	Why this girl dey speak like this? Ehn? Why? She no dey shame? This is what I was thinking to myself as [MASK] was laughing plenty. Her mama was not in the house. And her uncle too. That is why she was speaking like that.

Ella	Hitla	Then you can return again and begin to look for [MASK]. Some time during your leave, you can find one nice girl who will make you happy.’ That is what our big man said. “Even sef there was plenty sense in everything he said.

Gerty	Agnes	She likes me to be soza. So she will tell my mother that unless I am soza, she will not marry me. Then my mother because she wants this picken, she must allow me to go to soza after I have married [MASK].

Cathy	Agnes	You know as you sozas are. You all like woman. And you like beautiful woman more than. When I see how that you [MASK] is walking all the time, I know that one soza man or even soza captain will just take her and make her his war wife.

Soza	tiaffic	Then they increased it by small. Until they begin to take bigger bigger bribe than before. Then the people begin to say that now wey soza and police be government, nobody can be able to arrest [MASK] when they chop bribe. Because government cannot arrest government.

Ma's	Agnes	Ah - ah. Or did somebody come to tief all our things? The only thing I see in the house is just empty pot and mortar and bucket. Nothing again. Not even cockroach or rat. So I go to [MASK] him mama house.

John	Bullet	But [MASK] tell me that it is not our boys who is shooting that gun. Then he pointed to the front. I look carefully. I cannot see anything at all. I wanted to get out of the pit so that I can see better still.

papa	Agnes	Nobody likes to carry bad news. That is why they did not tell you.” “So my mama and my [MASK] have dead?” “Yes.” I just bend my head down and begin to cry. The water was falling plenty plenty from my eye.

mama	Agnes	and I do not return? So I said “God no gree bad thing.” [MASK] cannot be able to forget me like that. Even if she want to forget me, my mama will not allow her because my mama must to take her like her own picken.

Birabee	Duzia	“Ah - ah. This Chief Birabee is strong man after all, oh. To hear the name of our own Chief in the radio is not small thing at all. This Dukana will be important place in the world after all. ” [MASK] was very happy.

Marasmus	Sozaboy	All of them have already dead because of kwashiokor. When you see all those children with small big belly like pot, their eyes run go inside inside their head, they have begin yellow small small, [MASK], know that death have begin to knock for the doormouth.

Ada	Agnes	Shit. Well, we have brought you drink, you Sozaboy fucking bastard dog. Where is that your fine fine girl? Let her bring us some cup for drinking.” So [MASK] who was inside the kitchen brought cups.

Roddy	Bullet	Because I was looking at [MASK] face as he drank that drink. And his face was the face of porson who have already dead. And when he finished the bottle, the soza captain begin laugh and the san mazor laugh too. Then they asked us to get out.

the man	Bullet	Him put two hands up to show that he have no gun. So when [MASK] see that the man no hold gun, he jumped out of the pit. But he looked at me as if to say ‘I think you remember what I told you before’.

Dill	Bom	Believe me,” [MASK] said. “But if he can make our name appear in the radio, why can’t he tell government to send us salt so that we can eat and be happy? Even sef why no salt?”

Stan	Bullet	They drink like that until the drink finish well well. So the man bring another bottle. ’E tell [MASK] make him give some to him friends wey dey inside ‘those cold trenches’ as him talk am. Na pit de man dey call ‘trench’ you know.

John	Bullet	But you no go see happiness for him face. Only for him eye. After some time, we reached the camp. [MASK] was the first to jump from the boat. He went quickly to tell the new san mazor that enemy have killed the soza captain.

Enoch	Agnes	And after that everybody put him waterproof for ground and lie down. I was very happy to lie down. By this time small rain don begin dey fall, dey make noise for roof. I begin think of [MASK]. But sleep catch me well well.

Okonkwo	Bullet	Then the man laugh small small. Then [MASK] begin laugh too, small small. All this time my finger dey for the trigger. I never fire gun before as you know. And I don’t know as it will be if I pull that trigger.

John	Manmuswak	When I heard that, I just opened my eyes. And I saw [MASK] throw down his gun and then make sign of the cross and run away. Still about two prisoners that he have not killed plus myself. Immediately, we three just run into the bush.

Penelope	Agnes	And she will show me where my wife [MASK] is standing waiting for me to hold her and embrace her. Oh, I think it will be wonderful. So now, I come enter the village. It surprisised me that every place was very very quiet.

Benjy	Mene	Well in fact another thing which surprisised me was how he recognized me when he saw me. Like say the drink just clear from his eye one time. “[MASK], my boy,” he said, “what are you doing here?”

Daisy	Agnes	I don’t know what I will say. I just say the first thing which I remember. “Trouble no dey ring bell,” was what I said. [MASK] begin laugh. I think that I tell her something stupid.

Sairy	Agnes	But [MASK] just tell me ‘yes’. But she say I must be soza first. She say she wants to marry me quick quick so she can get her own house and born picken. Because she don tire for stay for another porson house.

Trovik	Bullet	The soza captain continued to look through his binocular. He did not see what I saw. And what I saw is this: [MASK] get up from where he was sitting in front of the soza captain, turned round quickly, aimed his gun at the soza captain and just shoot.

Walt	Agnes	What can it mean? I tell you, I was very confused that morning. And that day 1 was turning the dreams for my mind. And I remembered too what the tall man said at the Upwine Bar. What [MASK] said.

Enemy	Hitla	And the people are saying that the enemy is not very far away again. So he cannot be like [MASK]. Anyway, I have heard of new thing from this Pitakwa visit. There is one porson called Enemy that plenty people will go to kill.

Trueman	Na	[MASK] so the boys talk. So we all continue to be playing football every afternoon. And after the football we will go and swim in the river. And then I will go and chop my mama chop. Before I sleep. Still the lorry dey for workshop.

He	Zaza	He was prouding when he saw as I was looking. Before I can open my mouth, [MASK] have begun to answer the very question wey I bin wan ask am. “Oh yes, I fuck am well well.”

Gitano	Bullet	And if I am soza captain, I will be smoking plenty cigar and drinking plenty ginkana. So when I think of cigar and ginkana and the soza captain, I come remember that [MASK] is not inside the pit again and since he went away he have not returned.

J.J.C.	Agnes	Very fine rifle. I like it. I held it in my hand as I for hold [MASK] my young wife withJ.J.C. 1 told the rifle that him and me we will sleep and wake together and if anybody come disturb us, we will just finish him one time.

Earl	Manmuswak	And I am asking myself how the ammo just finish for [MASK] gun like say someone send am message. And if the ammo did not finish like that, by now I would have already dead, and that will be that.

Onyeka	Bullet	[MASK] like anything happen as I see for him eye. But that wickedness wey I dey see for him eye don disappear. Even ’e dey me like say ’e happy. But you no go see happiness for him face. Only for him eye.

Farima	Agnes	And she too she will be shaming and cannot tell me anything freely. As you know, that is how girls used to behave in this Dukana. “[MASK], I want to talk to you very serious,” is what I said after some time.

Craig	Manmuswak	Until I come open my eye well well and I cannot sleep again. So I rub my eye and I am alive and awake. I look round the hospital dormitory and I see that very tall man again. Yes, my dear brothers and sisters, it is [MASK].

John	Bullet	All this time [MASK] and myself we are like brothers. Because we are always staying in the same pit or we sleep near ourselves in the dormitory tent. I think this man likes me too much as me I like am too. We used to talk about everything.

Ada	Awright	“I know she will be hiding so she cannot give us drink today that her son is going to soza. [MASK] let her hide. Shit. Well, we have brought you drink, you Sozaboy fucking bastard dog. Where is that your fine fine girl?

Sahib	Bullet	But everybody must hold their gun ready. In case he gives them order to fire. So I jumped from our own pit and went to all the other pits and told them as [MASK] have said and then quick quick I come return to my own pit.

Tarzan	Toko	[MASK], tako, tako. Oh my mother, pray for me, make these sozas no kill me. Let them kill snake, leopard and tiger. All those bad animals who live inside bush. But make them no kill me. I was swimming all this time,

Arm	soza	If [MASK] will live or die, it is gun. Don’t joke with am. Love am, respect am, keep am clean every time. Don’t allow cold to catch it. Love it as you love your picken; as you love your wife, as you love your girl friend.

NiMO	Agnes	Then the sozas began to sing another song: We are sozas marching for our nation In the name of Jesus we shall conquer. The sozas were moving nearer now. And then they begin to shoot. Tako, tako, tako. And still I cannot see [MASK].

Odysseus	Zaza	Welcome, [MASK], our son, our brave son.’ And how I will be prouding like man who just marry young beautiful wife. “The lorry was moving very fast and after some time I cannot see anything again.

Stanley	Duzia	I see one big dirty cloth like tarpaulin on the floor. So I used the rifle on the tarpaulin. Then I hear one big shout: “I beg-oh, I beg-oh. ” I cannot make mistake tor the voice. It is [MASK].

Jem	porson	I think you know that by this time, the sun have begin to go down and night was coming. But [MASK] can still see everything oh. It was not yet night. I walk quick quick, quick quick to where my mama house used to be.

Rose	Zaza	Just smooth like wetin call and her bobby just stand up like calabash. I will do anything so that this fine girl can be my wife and I can be sleeping with her on one bed every night. Many many times I used to think of this two things. Number one. [MASK].

Johnny	Bullet	I was prouding of myself plenty. The white handkerchief that is moving is not a thing for joke at all. So I have heard what [MASK] said about being ready. And I must not talk at all. Now the white handkerchief begin to near us.

Useful	Sozaboy	Because there is no food for us to eat and no lorry to take us out of that prison, and after all we are prisoners and he can kill any useless prisoner who is not better than maggot. So I tried to make him know that I am [MASK] that he have saved in that school hospital.

Miss Brant	Zaza	So [MASK] said that refugee is somebody that they just throway like rubbish, no get house to stay in, no get food to eat or cloth to wear. So the camp where plenty of them are staying is like compost pit.

Nemo	Sozaboy	All those who have two legs begin to run away. [MASK], juju, I looked at myself, I cannot run. And there is no place for me to run to. Because I have no father and mother anywhere in this world.

Abdul	Manmuswak	and I did not die in refugee camp and I did not die that time that [MASK] took me from prison to shoot me and the other prisoners, God forbid that I will die when the war have already finish.

Kain	Ehn	Is this army special? [MASK]? Why money? So I asked one of the boys who was talking about paying money why he have paid the money. Then the boy laughed and said that I do not know anything if I am asking that kain question.

Nugwa	porson	Nevertheless you must remember that as I was going from one camp to another, I was passing the villages of the Nugwa people and I must say that what I saw in those villages can make [MASK] cry. Because all these people cannot find food to chop.

Mattie	Sozaboy	“[MASK], you are not small boy again. You know that in this town, nobody can tell you about dead people first. Nobody likes to carry bad news. That is why they did not tell you.”

Tom	Duzia	“Oh yes,” [MASK] agreed. “Even all the money he is collecting from woman and man I think he has chopped it by himself.” “Did you pay the money?” “How can?

the Lord of the Flies	Hitla	All this running that you are running here can make you lame. All this hunting that you are hunting here can kill you. And all this starving that you are starving can make you to die. And if you die do you think you can help us to kill [MASK]?

Jem	Agnes	I told him that once a soza always a soza. So he asked whether I will still carry gun and fight. And I said that what is very very important to me now is to know where my mama and my [MASK] are hiding or staying, not fighting useless fight.

Curley	Duzia	Oh, this [MASK] sef. Have you people ever seen man who useless like this? How can he be saying such thing? As I was saying, I cannot answer all this nonsense that these people are talking because to talk true I was shaming bad bad.

John	Bullet	How can handkerchief grow in the bush? And white handkerchief too. I begin to think that I am stupid. But no. It is white handkerchief. And this handkerchief was going up, up, up. So I called [MASK] and told him what I am seeing.

Germany	Manmuswak	Na him come spoil the war. And now all my friends don die or sometimes [MASK] don take some of them make prisoner of war. And I come say to myself that oh my God, war is very bad thing.

Tony	Bullet	Then the soza captain begin to march from his tent to where we were all sitting in the speed boat. Before he reach where we were staying, [MASK] turned to the boys who were sitting like mumu and said “No be everything wey eye see that mouth dey talk.

Pablo	Sozaboy	“Well, [MASK], I’m sure you are fucking that girl well. Please don’t tear her thing, oh. Because I know all you young young boys who have not seen toto before. When you see toto for the first time you will want to die before you leave it.”

Terence	Kole	“T err [MASK], you have plenty of time to spend on this boy, oh. Do you think he is listening to you? Don’t you see how his eye is full of sleep? He did not sleep last night, you know.

Madam Kpee	Agnes	All the time she will sit with her and beg her not to cry again because she thinks that her husband, her Sozaboy is brave man and cannot die. I am sure that if not for [MASK], your mama will have already dead because of unhappiness.”

Moon	Hungry	Then I just lie down and sleep. I think I sleep for long time, because when I come open my eye, the sun have dead. Only one big moon like football was shining. [MASK] catch me well well and I tire proper proper.

George	Manmuswak	Even [MASK] used to come to me to knack tory after he have chooked the sick sozas. So he told me how he have fought the war in many places. I asked him whether all the place he have fight for na soso nurse wey ’e be.

Emily	Agnes	And sometimes I can bring [MASK] my dear some better thing from the shop which she will like and thank me for it. So I begin to run towards the motor. But when I get there now, soso soza soza.

papa	Agnes	And you mean to say it is disease. If it is so, it will be a very good disease to kill somebody. Wait oh. So praps my mama and my [MASK] can be suffering from this kwashiokor.

Danny	Manmuswak	I know that [MASK] and him sozas will tief everything in that town now. All those fine fine chairs, and radio and radiogram inside the house. All those fine fine things inside the shop which the people have leave and run away because they cannot stay and hear the noise of gun.

Father	Bullet	Then he will answer that they will give us gun when we have learnt how to shoot it. “And which time will they learn us how to shoot the gun?” I used to ask [MASK]. “One thing at a time and that well done. ”

Johnny	Bullet	As he pushed me down, I hear another sound like gun and I see something like bird with sharp noise wey fly near my head. “Careful, be careful,” [MASK] said. “Whasmatter?” I asked.

Soza	Sozaboy	Then he told me, “You do well, small boy soza, you do well, [MASK].” And everybody in the line was laughing because of how he was calling us. So all of us were very happy.

She	Agnes	no get house every time, how you no go fit born picken? Even you go born picken quick quick too as I see you.” This [MASK] sef. She too like this talk of snake wey no get house. What kain girl be dis?

Dally	Bullet	This gun is number one for soza. So I was thinking to myself that until I get gun I cannot be proper soza. Every time I will be asking my friend, one boy we used to call [MASK], when they will give us gun.

Kurtz	Bullet	Finger, nail, hair, prick, blokkus. Oh, I just begin cry like woman. Oh, foolish man, na who send me make I go join soza? Then I just remember say I never see [MASK]. My heart just cut one time.

The soza captain	Manmuswak	“Whosai dem dey k cep una chop? A hi your Commanding Officer dey chop all the food by himself?” asked [MASK]. Ha! the soza captain is chopping all the food by himself? If this thing is true something go bad for everybody oh.

Killer Khan	Whasmatter	So now, all the boys were very very surprisised when they heard this one. Sleep inside the water? [MASK]? Even myself I was very very angry. Why this soza captain is trying to frighten everybody? He knows that nobody can sleep inside water.

Eze	Bullet	He said we are going for front. This [MASK] is a clever boy, but he can be stupid some time you know. What he mean by we are going for front? No be inside lorry we dey?

John	Bullet	It was like that till day broke and we return to the dormitory barrack. So now, the whole of that day, I no fit sleep or do anything at all. If [MASK] no be porson wey like me, I for enter inside pepper soup proper.

Billy	Agnes	That I cannot keep on thinking of my mama and [MASK] because the other things that I am seeing in this war are even more important than anything that can happen to me or to my family. I begin to think that the world is not a good place even.

Manmuswak	Wonders	[MASK] will never end. I think you remember that the first time I saw this Manmuswak is at the African Upwine Bar when he was chopping stockfish and drinking palmy and telling that his friend the short man that he can fight any war if they tell him to fight it.

