Heart's ease	Jerome	When she had so far recovered as to be able to look around her, she raised herself slightly, and again screamed and swooned. The old man now feeling satisfied that [MASK]'s dark complexion was the immediate cause of the catastrophe, said in a somewhat petulant tone,--

Arthur	Jerome	[MASK] heard the alarm, and hastily dressing himself, he went forth and hastened toward the burning building. "There,--there in that room in the second story, is my child!" exclaimed a woman, wringing her hands, and imploring some one to go to the rescue of her little one.

He	Gertrude	He feared even to go near the house, for he did not wish to see his child. [MASK] felt this every time he declined accompanying her to her mother's. Possessed of a tender and confiding heart, entirely unlike her mother, she sympathized deeply with her husband.

Cathy	Henry	The return of [MASK] at twelve o'clock did not increase her happiness. Feeling his guilt, he had absented himself from the house since his return from the ride. CHAPTER XI TO-DAY A MISTRESS, TO-MORROW A SLAVE

Creighton	Sam	On one occasion the old doctor was ill himself, so as to be unable to attend to his patients. A slave, with pass in hand, called to receive medical advice, and the master told [MASK] to examine him and see what he wanted.

Dolly	Clotelle	What could these persons want there? thought she. Without any parleying or word of explanation, the two entered the house, leaving the carriage in charge of a servant. [MASK] ran to her mother, and clung to her dress as if frightened by the strangers.

Tom	Isabella	At first [MASK] thought it was a plan by which the negro wished to try her fidelity to her owner; but she was soon convinced, by his earnest manner and the deep feeling he manifested, that he was entirely sincere.

Cosette	Clotelle	Although agitated for fear her mistress would see her talking to a stranger, and be angry, [MASK] still thought she saw something in the countenance of the young man that told her he was sincere, and she did not wish to hurt his feelings.

God	Providence	We had better let the court decide the question. Moreover, as a Christian and God-fearing people, we ought to submit to the dictates of justice. Should we take this man's life by force, an All-wise [MASK] would hold us responsible for the act."

Jo	Georgiana	For many months [MASK] had been in a decline, and any little trouble would lay her on a sick bed for days. She was, therefore, poorly able to bear the loss of this companion, whom she so dearly loved.

Gulliver	Jerome	The wind was proudly swelling the white sails, and the little craft plunging into the foaming waves, with the land fast receding in the distance, when [MASK] mounted a pile of lumber to take a last farewell of his native land.

Miss Watson	Clotelle	There was not even color enough about the child to make it appear that a single drop of African blood flowed through its blue veins. Considerable sensation was created in the kitchen among the servants when the carriage drove up, and [MASK] entered the house.

Tom	Jerome	In vain did [MASK] tell them that he was not a slave. True, they had not caught the man they expected; but, if they could make this slave tell from what place he had escaped, they knew that a good price would be paid them for the negro's arrest.

Mr. Ramsay	Sam	If furniture, crockery, or anything was to be purchased, [MASK] felt that he had been slighted if his opinion was not asked. As to the marketing, he did it all. He sat at the head of the servants' table in the kitchen, and was master of the ceremonies.

Aunt Sally	Dinah	Ah! ef she ain't a whole team and de ole gray mare to boot, den [MASK] don't know nuffin'." Of course, the mistress was out of the kitchen before these last marks were made.

Sikes	Jones	"I am broke, all but my boy," said [MASK], as he ran his fingers through his cards; "but he is worth a thousand dollars, and I will bet the half of him."

Ahab	Clotelle	That he was sincerely and deeply enamored of [MASK] all could see. The weather became still more squally. The wind rushed through the white, foaming waves, and the ship groaned with its own wild and ungovernable labors, while nothing could be seen but the wild waste of waters.

The black doctor	Sam	[MASK] soon acquired the name among the slaves of the "Black Doctor." With this appellation he was delighted; and no regular physician could have put on more airs than did the black doctor when his services were required.

Long John Silver	Devenant	At first she respected [MASK] for the love he manifested for her, and for his apparent willingness to make any sacrifice for her welfare. True, this was an adventure upon which she had risked her all, and should her heart be foiled in this search for hidden treasures, her affections would be shipwrecked forever.

The Man Who Was No Rider	Jerome	[MASK] was no rider. He had not been on horseback for more than ten years, and as soon as he mounted, every one saw that he was a novice, and a smile was on the countenance of each member of the company.

He	Devenant	This was the first stage of "love at first sight." He who bows to the shrine of beauty when beckoned by this mysterious agent seldom regrets it. [MASK] reproached himself for not having made inquiries concerning the girl before he left the market in the morning.

Bystone	Sam	[MASK] was once seen taking out a tooth for one of his patients, and nothing appeared more amusing. He got the poor fellow down on his back, and then getting astride of his chest, he applied the turnkeys and pulled away for dear life.

Isabel	Gertrude	Oh, how [MASK]'s heart beat as she seated herself, on their arrival! The beautiful parlor, surrounded on all sides with luxury and taste, with the sun creeping through the damask curtains, added a charm to the scene.

Uncle Jim	Pompey	"Den you must have all them gray whiskers shaved off, and all dem gray hairs plucked out of your head." This was all said by [MASK] in a manner which showed that he know what he was about. "How old is you?"

Dr. Cameron	Sam	The physician having a good business, and a large number of his patients being slaves,--the most of whom had to call on the doctor when ill,--he put [MASK] to bleeding, pulling teeth, and administering medicine to the slaves.

Esmeralda	Jerome	A moment more and a lady, a beautiful brunette, dressed in black, with long black curls hanging over her shoulders, entered the room. Her dark, bright eyes flashed as she caught the first sight of [MASK].

she	Gertrude	Without a single word, he buried his face in his handkerchief, and burst into tears. This made [MASK] still more unhappy, for she feared that he had misunderstood her; and she immediately expressed her regret that she had mentioned the subject.

I	Jerome	The sounds, at first faint, grew louder and louder, plainly indicating that some person was suffering extreme pain. "I did not like this hotel, much, when we came in," I said [MASK], relighting the lamp, which had been accidentally extinguished.

the dentist	Sam	Unfortunately, he had got hold of the wrong tooth, and the poor man screamed as loud as he could; but it was to no purpose, for [MASK] had him fast, and after a pretty severe tussle out came the sound grinder.

Ellen	Clotelle	I returned in the evening, but you was gone." [MASK] looked indignantly at the stranger, and was about leaving the window again when the quivering of his lips and the trembling of his voice struck her attention and caused her to remain.

Dr. Livesey	Jerome	She was not aware that he had fled on a steamer, and when questioned, she replied,-- "I don't know; and if I did I would not tell you. I care not what you do with me, if [MASK] but escapes."

Jim	Pompey	Now remember dat you is thirty years old and no more." "Well den, I guess I will only be thirty when dey ax me." "What's your name?" said [MASK], addressing himself to another. "Jeems." "Oh!

Geoffrey	Jerome	But alas for the poor American! As his fine steed came up to the first fence, and was about to make the leap, [MASK] pulled at the bridle, and cried at the top of his voice, "Whoa! whoa! whoa!"

Hawkeye	Aaron	"Three years, sar." "Why, that makes you thirty-three. I thought you told me you were only twenty-five?" [MASK] now looked first at the planter, then at the trader, and seemed perfectly bewildered.

Ellen	Clotelle	For two long days and nights did [MASK] watch at the bedside of her father before he could speak to her intelligently. Sometimes, in his insane fits, he would rave in the most frightful manner, and then, in a few moments, would be as easily governed as a child.

Nelson	Toby	[MASK] was also there, with his face shaven and greased, ready for inspection. The examination commenced, and was carried on in such a manner as to shock the feelings of anyone not entirely devoid of the milk of human kindness.

Eliza	Clotelle	She had become the mother of a lovely daughter, which its father named [MASK]. The complexion of the child was still fairer than that of its mother. Indeed, she was not darker than other white children, and as she grew older she more and more resembled her father.

Pollyanna	Clotelle	[MASK] here took her father's walking-stick, which was lying on the back of the sofa where he had left it, and, raising it, said,-- "If you bad people touch my mother, I will strike you."

Robinson Crusoe	Jerome	As soon as [MASK] had so far recovered as to be able to speak, he said,-- "Where am I, and what does all this mean?" "Wait awhile," replied the old man, "and I will tell you all."

Steve	Sam	Therefore, on the evening of the party, when all the servants were at the table, [MASK] cut a big figure. There he sat, with his wool well combed and buttered, face nicely greased, and his ruffles extending five or six inches from his bosom.

Bute	Aaron	"What's your name?" asked a man in a straw hat of a tall negro who stood with his arms folded across his breast, leaning against the wall. "My name is [MASK], sar." "How old are you?"

Diomedes	Jerome	[MASK] saw the ladies even leading the gentlemen, but this could not inspire him. They cleared the fences, four and five feet high with perfect ease, showing they were quite at home in the saddle. But alas for the poor American!

Tom	Jerome	But the child was saved. The stranger was [MASK]. As soon as he revived, he shrunk from every eye, as if he feared they would take from him the freedom which he had gone through so much to obtain.

Danny	Clotelle	"Be brave and determined, and you will still be free." The words sounded like a charm in his ears and he went boldly forward. [MASK] had provided a suit of men's clothes and had placed them where her lover could get them, if he should succeed in getting out.

Uncle Tom	William	[MASK] was a tall, full-blooded African, whose countenance beamed with intelligence. Being a mechanic, he had by industry earned more money than he had paid to his owner for his time, and this he had laid aside, with the hope that he might some day get enough to purchase his freedom.

Laurie	Henry	When [MASK] returned home, he found his wife seated at the window, awaiting his approach. Secret grief was gnawing at her heart. Her sad, pale cheeks and swollen eyes showed too well that agony, far deeper than her speech portrayed, filled her heart.

Laurie	Isabella	Her life had been a secluded one, and though now twenty-eight years of age, her beauty had only assumed a quieter tone. The other servants only laughed at [MASK]'s misfortune in losing her beautiful hair.

Tom	Sally	"I should tink dat gal wouldn't frow herseff away in dat ar way," said [MASK]; "She's good lookin' 'nough to git a house-servant, and not hab to put up wid a field-nigger." "

Evangeline	Woman	The smile with which she uttered these words finely illustrated the poet's meaning, when he says,-- "A fearful gift upon thy heart is laid, [MASK]--the power to suffer and to love." Her sweet simplicity seemed to dare them to lay their rough hands amid her trembling curls.

Selim	Sam	For a long time after, [MASK] did little else than boast of his skill as a doctor. We have said that the black doctor was full of wit and good sense. Indeed, in that respect, he had scarcely an equal in the neighborhood.

Edna	Clotelle	As she uttered the last words, tears--the sweet bright tears that love alone can bring forth--bedewed her cheeks. "Are you married?" now inquired [MASK], with a palpitating heart and trembling voice. "

Jimbourne	Henry	This caused her to look with a suspicious eye on every good-looking negro woman that she saw. While the old woman was thus lecturing her daughter upon her rights and duties, [MASK], unaware of what was transpiring, had left the house and gone to his office.

Miss Watson	Agnes	The preacher, however, appeared to be but little moved by their sorrow, and took his newly-purchased victim on shore. [MASK] begged him to buy her daughter, but he refused, on the ground that he had no use for her.

Miss Havisham	Isabella	[MASK] was now in her native town, and near her daughter; but how could she communicate with her? how could she see her? To have made herself known would have been a suicidal act; betrayal would have followed, and she arrested.

Bertha	Dinah	"Gins to look like nigger, now," said [MASK], with her mouth upon a grin. The mistress smiled, as the shorn child reentered the room; but there was something more needed. The child was white, and that was a great objection.

Hawkeye	Sam	Bleeding and a dose of calomel were always considered indispensable by the "old boss," and as a matter of course, [MASK] followed in his footsteps. On one occasion the old doctor was ill himself, so as to be unable to attend to his patients.

Esmeralda	Isabella	The astonished father stood completely amazed, looking at the now womanly form of her who, in his happier days, he had taken on his knee with so much fondness and alacrity. It was then that he saw his own and [MASK]'s features combined in the beautiful face that he was then beholding.

Dilsey	Clotelle	"I married him," said [MASK], "because I loved him. Why should the white man be esteemed as better than the black? I find no difference in men on account of their complexion. One of the cardinal principles of Christianity and freedom is the equality and brotherhood of man."

Huckleberry Finn	Sam	"What have you been about, sir, and where was you last night when I was called?" said the doctor. "I don't know, sir. I 'spose I was asleep," replied [MASK].

Daddy	Thompson	"I will call you," said [MASK], as he laid five hundred dollars at the feet of the boy, who was standing, on the table, and at the same time throwing down his cards before his adversary.

Little Nell	Marion	It seemed as if poor [MASK]'s heart would break when she found that she was to be separated from her mother. The preacher, however, appeared to be but little moved by their sorrow, and took his newly-purchased victim on shore.

Miss Havisham	Isabella	" inquired [MASK], with a quivering voice. "None of your insolence to me," bawled out the old woman, at the top of her voice; "if you do, I will give you what you deserve so much, my lady,--a good whipping."

Eleanor	Clotelle	"The love," said he, "which I had for my sister is transferred to you." [MASK] had all along suspected that the man was a knave, and this profession of love at once confirmed her in that belief. She therefore immediately turned away and left him.

Mr. Brownlow	Jerome	Taking from his pocket his nearly empty purse, [MASK] handed the man a half-crown; but he had hardly restored it to his pocket, before his eye fell on another man in the waiting costume. "What do you want?" he asked. "

Jeeves	Sam	[MASK] had gone to the city to attend a ball, and had decked himself out in his master's best suit. The physician returned before morning, and again retired to bed but with little hope of sleep, for his thoughts were with his servant and horse.

Fitzwilliam	Jerome	Away dashed the huntsmen, following the hounds, and all were soon lost to the view of their colored companion. [MASK] rode up and down the field looking for a gate or bars, that he might get through without risking his neck.

Mr. Eckland	Pompey	We first endure, then pity, then embrace." It was on the second day of the steamer's voyage, that [MASK] selected five of the oldest slaves, took them into a room by themselves, and commenced preparing them for the market.

Fear	Vice	Such is the force of habit:-- "[MASK] is a monster of such frightful mien, That to be hated, needs but to be seen; But seen too oft, familiar with Its face, We first endure, then pity, then embrace."

Sarah	Agnes	Brothers and sisters were tom from each other, and mothers saw their children for the last time on earth. It was late in the day, and when the greatest number of persons were thought to be present, when [MASK] and her daughters were brought out to the place of sale.

Joe	Sam	The parson in his drawing-room did not make a more imposing appearance than did his servant on this occasion. "I is bin had my fortune tole last Sunday night," said [MASK], while helping one of the girls. "Indeed!" cried half a dozen voices.

Nobody	Jerome	"Yes," said another, "he got some book-learning somewhere, and that has spoiled him." An effort was then made to learn from [MASK] where he had learned to read, but the black refused to give any information on the subject.

Elinor	Agnes	This was the parson's country residence, where the family spent only two months during the year. His town residence was a fine villa, seated on the brow of a hill at the edge of the city. It was in the kitchen of this house that [MASK] found her new home.

Aunt Alexandra	Jane	"Wondah whose brat dat ar' dat missis bringin' home wid her?" said [MASK], as she put the ice in the pitchers for dinner. "I warrant it's some poor white nigger somebody bin givin' her." The child was white.

Raskolnikov	Jerome	[MASK] had scarcely passed the prison-gates, ere he reproached himself for having taken such a step. There seemed to him no hope of escape out of the State, and what was a few hours or days at most, of life to him, when, by obtaining it, another had been sacrificed.

Eveline	Isabella	At the dusk of the evening previous to the day when she was to be sent off, as the old prison was being closed for the night, [MASK] suddenly darted past the keeper, and ran for her life.

Clara	Isabella	[MASK] was in her eighteenth year, and was admitted by all who knew her to be the handsomest girl, colored or white, in the city. On this occasion, she was attired in a sky-blue silk dress, with deep black lace flounces, and bertha of the same.

Nancy	Isabella	Again he looked at his watch, and said, "I must go." "It is more than a year since you staid all night," murmured [MASK], as he folded her convulsively in his arms, and pressed upon her beautiful lips a parting kiss.

Silas	William	To avoid conversation, however, she kept closely to her state-room, under the plea of illness. Meanwhile, [MASK] was playing his part well with the servants. He was loudly talking of his master's wealth, and nothing on the boat appeared so good as in his master's fine mansion.

Jeeves	Sam	So, to the latter's gratification, the master let him have his own way. On one occasion, when making pills and ointment, [MASK] made a great mistake. He got the preparations for both mixed together, so that he could not legitimately make either.

Inspector	Tabor	All at once the truth flashes upon the minds of the fugitives like a glare of light,--'tis [MASK] with his dogs! The scent becomes warmer and warmer, and what was at first an irregular cry now deepens into one ceaseless roar, as the relentless pack presses on after its human prey.

Mrs. Norris	Henry	At the dawn of day, she tried to make herself believe that the whole of the past night was a dream, and determined to be satisfied with the explanation which [MASK] should give on his next visit. CHAPTER XII THE MOTHER-IN-LAW.

Grace	Clotelle	Such was the personal appearance of the girl who was now in prison by her own act to save the life of another. Would she be hanged in his stead, or would she receive a different kind of punishment? These questions [MASK] did not ask herself.

Mr. Darcy	Jerome	While thus engaged, a servant entered and handed him a note. Hastily tearing it open, [MASK] read as follows:-- "Sir,--I owe you an apology for the abrupt manner in which I addressed you last evening, and the inconvenience to which you were subjected by some of my household.

Dilsey	Isabella	And let it be remembered that the house-servant has the best situation a slave can occupy. But the degradation and harsh treatment [MASK] experienced in her new home was nothing compared to the grief she underwent at being separated from her dear child.

Catherine	Jerome	"We must see this poor man, whoever he is," said she, as [MASK] finished the sentence. The landlord was glad to hear that his guests felt some interest in the sick man, and promised that the invalid's room should be got ready for their reception.

Rodriguez	Jerome	As [MASK] opened the door, to learn, if possible, the cause of the cries and groans, he could distinguish the words, "She's dead! yes, she's dead! but I did not kill her. She was my child!

Pierre	Clotelle	Being already attired in [MASK]'s clothes, the disguised man embraced the weeping girl, put his handkerchief to his face, and passed out of the jail, without the keeper's knowing that his prisoner was escaping in a disguise and under cover of the night.

the man	Jerome	She was my child! my own daughter. I loved her, and yet I did not protect her." "Whoever he is," said [MASK], "he's crack-brained; some robber, probably, from the mountains."

Jim	Sam	As the negroes at these parties tried to excel each other in the way of dress, [MASK] was often at a loss to make that appearance that his heart desired, but his ready wit ever helped him in this.

Penny	Clotelle	When he was with her, she devoted every moment of her time to him, and never failed to speak of the growth and increasing intelligence of [MASK]. The child had grown so large as to be able to follow its father on his departure out to the road.

Ellen	Isabella	Tears rushed to his eyes, and turning upon his heel, he went back to his own room. It was then that [MASK] was revenged; and she no doubt looked smilingly down from her home in the spirit-land on the scene below.

The father	Jerome	Strange as the scene appeared, all present saw that it was indeed a meeting between a father and his long-lost daughter. [MASK] now ordered all present to leave the room, except the nurse, and every effort was at once made to quiet the sufferer.

Death	Death	Some were upon their knees at the bedside, others standing around, and all weeping. [MASK] is a leveler; and neither age, sex, wealth, nor condition, can avert when he is permitted to strike. The most beautiful flowers must soon fade and droop and die.

Heathcliff	Sam	One afternoon, about a fortnight after the colonel's visit [MASK] saw his master's patient riding up to the gate on horseback. The doctor happened to be in the yard, and met the colonel and said,-- "How are you now?"

Sambo	Sam	After breakfast, [MASK] was taken into the barn, tied up, and severely flogged with the cat, which brought from him the truth concerning his absence the previous night. This forever put an end to his fine appearance at the negro parties.

Parker	Jerome	"I did not send for you; what is your business?" demanded [MASK]. "I is the man what opened your lordship's cab-door, when your lordship came to the house on Monday last, and I know your honor won't allow a poor man to starve."

Jim	Sam	For a long time [MASK] had no difficulty in attiring himself for parties; but the old proverb that "It is a long lane that has no turning," was verified in the negro's case. One stormy night, when the rain was descending in torrents, the doctor heard a rap at his door.

Mr. Compson	Jerome	"I will be glad, sir, if you will leave us alone." The little boy at this juncture set up a loud cry, and amid the general confusion, [MASK] left the ground and returned to his hotel.

Clyde	Gertrude	Although he had never satisfied [MASK] as to who the quadroon woman and child were, he had kept her comparatively easy by his close attention to her, and by telling her that she was mistaken in regard to the child's calling him "papa."

atticus	Henry	"Who is that woman? and why did that child call you papa?" she inquired, with a trembling voice. [MASK] was silent; he knew not what to say, and without another word passing between them, they drove home.

