Rabbit	Yakov	Cut out the noise, you pigs, or you’ll live on half rations for a week.” The other guard stared through the barred grating into the gloomy cell. “Where’s the Jew?” he called. There was dead silence. The prisoners looked among themselves; some glanced furtively at [MASK].

Tom	Yakov	In the sidestreets the police held up carriages and motorcars, and bullock carts from the provinces, piled high with vegetables and grains, or loaded with cans of milk. Along the route to the courthouse mounted police were stationed at intervals to keep order. [MASK] moved from one window to another to see the crowds.

the latrine	Yakov	The sentries patrolling the yard pointed their rifles at the prisoners and they returned to the lines, but not the slop-pail man, the one with the cracked eyeglasses. He fished some burlap rags from a garbage pile in the comer of the yard and ran towards [MASK].

Razumihin	Grubeshov	It is conducted with his full knowledge and approval.” Ah, it’s bad luck, the fixer thought. After a while he said, “But why should the Tsar believe what isn’t true?” [MASK] quickly returned to his desk and sat down.

Rosa Parks	Jews	It snows history, which means what happens to somebody starts in a web of events outside the personal. It starts of course before he gets there. We’re all in history, that’s sure, but some are more than others, [MASK] more than some.

Mr. Darcy	Grubeshov	What have I to do with such things?” "You’ll find out, if you don’t already know, only too soon,” said [MASK], flushing. “In the meantime answer me truthfully and directly without vomiting a mouthful of irrelevant questions in return.

Bob	Yakov	“The same,” said [MASK]. “What did they say you did?” He thought he oughtn’t to tell them, but it came out quickly, in accusation of the accusers. “They say I killed a boy—it’s a dirty lie.”

Danny	Yakov	“I don’t know,” [MASK] whispered. "I told the barber to go ahead and do it.” "Are you a stool pigeon or squealer? The men are suspicious of you.” “No, no, tell them I’m not.”

Raoul	Kogin	He was surly and unpredictable and sometimes struck the fixer. [MASK], the night guard, was a tall man with a gaunt face and watery eyes, worn with worry. He spoke in a deep voice that seemed to rise from the ground.

Weismann	Yakov	[MASK] stared at his white crooked feet. The public prosecutor, in the grip of his excitement, went on: “My father once described to me an incident involving a synagogue cellar full of Jews, men and women, who attempted to hide from the Cossacks during a raid on their village.

Barnabas	Yakov	Then he sipped again from the hot glass and set it down, patting his snuff-swollen lips with a linen napkin. “I would like to offer you a modest reward for your timely assistance.” [MASK] hastily put down his glass and rose.

Dally	Raisl	He had considered a visit to their weed-strewn graves but hadn’t the heart at the last minute. The past was a wound in the head. He thought of [MASK] and felt depressed. The fixer snapped the rod against the nag’s ribs but got no increase of motion.

Billy	Shmuel	Give what you got left to [MASK], also a poor man.” He wanted to say more but couldn't. Tearing up some limp yellowing grass, he fed it to the cow, then returned to the horse and wagon.

Danny	Yakov	“What can a widow do with so many bedrooms? Generally I store things. When my aunt died she left me her furniture although I have enough of my own.” [MASK] was ordered to go up after the others had seen the boy’s room.

Arthur	Yakov	His watery eyes wandered. He told [MASK] he was a former jurist of high repute, and that he came with good news. An excitement so thick it felt like sickness surged through the fixer. He asked what good news.

Martha	Yakov	“I ought to have gone for him,” she said to [MASK], cracking her knuckles against her breast. “This is the second time this month he’s fallen in the street. When he drinks in the tavern it becomes an impossible situation.

Ripley	Gronfein	A guard opened the door and [MASK] disappeared from the cell for half an hour. When he returned he told the fixer they were letting him out that evening. He seemed satisfied but his ears were flaming, and afterwards he muttered much to himself for more than an hour.

Jack	Grubeshov	They watched him intently, [MASK]’s lips pursed. The fixer had wanted to look calmly and with dignity but had been unable to. It was as though he expected a wild animal in the room to spring out at him.

Billy the Kid	Yakov	Two days later the boy was buried in the cemetery, a few short steps from his home. [MASK] could see from the window of his stable the trees still powdered with April snow, and wandering amid them and the thin tombstones, the black crowd, among them some pilgrims with staves.

Greb	Yakov	He had more than once hit a log against the walls but there was never any response. Once an official passing by in the corridor saw his eye staring out and ordered him to shut the hole and move away from the door. After the man had gone [MASK] looked out again.

Rodion	Yakov	A clear area between the administrative offices on the west and the main cell block was the promenade grounds. [MASK] and his guards had got to the prison on a trolley, a ride of several versts from the District Courthouse where he had been in jail until then.

Tom	Yakov	You can shoot me but I won’t eat.” “If you expect to eat, eat what you get. If not you’ll starve.” For the next five days [MASK] starved. He exchanged the sickness of poisoning for the sickness of starving.

Prisoner	Bok	He cut into the pussing sores with a scalpel, without anesthetic. The prisoner, biting his lips to be silent, cried out at each cut. “This is good for you, [MASK],” said the surgeon.

George	Jews	“It’s no secret why [MASK] won’t eat pig. You’re blood brothers and both live on shit.” He sits on the grass under a leafy tree. The fields are full of flowers. He talks to himself not to forget.

Johnny	Shmuel	If that happens I’m doomed forever.” “I’m running,” said [MASK], cracking his knuckles against his bony chest, “but tell me first why they blame you for this terrible crime?” “Why they blame me? Because I was a stupid ass.

Fagin	Yakov	The next day he sidled up to [MASK] and whispered, worried, “They say on the outside that if the government brings you up on trial they might start a pogrom at the same time. The Black Hundreds are making terrible threats.

Huck	Dologushev	He tapped a thick finger on the paper on the table. "Listen, my friend, when a dog puts his nose into shit, he gets it dirty. You have a long nose, [MASK]. If you don’t believe me look in a mirror.

Nurse Ratched	Bibikov	I should have gone home the minute I finished my work and not be tempted by a table full of all kinds of food.” "Relate what happened in the bedroom,” [MASK] said. “And please confine yourself to the question at hand.”

Jody	Zhenia	But the boy was a smart one and bit, clawed, and screamed so loud they got frightened and let him go. I warned [MASK] more than once not to go back there or he might get kidnapped and killed, and he promised me he wouldn’t.

Nina	Yakov	He stared at it for five minutes. Could it be the indictment? Would they address it like that? [MASK] clumsily ripped open the envelope, tearing it across, and found in it a sixteen-page letter written in Russian in a woman’s spidery handwriting.

John	Berezhinsky	From the window came the sound of a troop of horses clattering into the prison yard. ‘‘It’s the Cossacks,” said [MASK]. “Will I have to walk in the middle of the street?” "You’ll find that out.

Nurse	Kogin	[MASK] told him the date when he came in with the prisoner’s breakfast. This morning the gruel was boiled rice in hot milk, eight ounces of black bread, a yellow piece of butter, and an enamel pot of sweetsmelling tea, with a chunk of lemon and two lumps of sugar.

Cool Hand Luke	Gronfein	“Watch your language, you,” warned the warden. “A foul heart, a foul tongue.” “It’s every man for himself,” [MASK] muttered. “I have five small children and a nervous wife.”

Lady Brett	Zina	Gentlemen called on her of course, [MASK] went on, but unfortunately not always the most sensitive or worthy, a situation more than one of her friends had to put up with. Sensitive, dependable men were rare, although such persons could be found in all classes, not necessarily gentry.

Hepzibah	Berezhinsky	Once he held it so long the stream burst forth, wetting his pants and shoes. When [MASK] came in and saw what had happened he slapped the fixer’s face with one hand, then with the other until the day blotted out.

Molly	Zina	[MASK], open and happy, and looking more attractive than he had ever seen, picked here and there at sweet and spicy things and filled her wineglass often. Her sharp face was flushed, she talked about herself and laughed at nothing at all.

Eeyore	Brother	“[MASK], I’m tired. If you want to go on in this storm, go in good health. But not me. I’ll take sleep and if it’s sleep forever, so much the better. At least the snow is warm.”

Roger	Yakov	The fixer rocked back and forth. The Deputy Warden was called to see. “What else would you expect?” he said as he spat. Sometimes [MASK] lost sight of the words. They were black birds with white wings, white birds with black wings.

George	Yakov	When he returned he told the fixer they were letting him out that evening. He seemed satisfied but his ears were flaming, and afterwards he muttered much to himself for more than an hour. Later he was calmer. That’s how it goes with money, [MASK] thought.

Tom	Gronfein	“He turned them over to us,” the Deputy Warden said to the fixer. “A law-abiding citizen.” “Don’t expect a moral man,” [MASK] said to nobody in particular, his eyes still clamped shut.

Raskolnikov	Yakov	[MASK] had to remove his clothes—the greatcoat, prison jacket, buttonless shirt, which were never washed though he had asked that he be allowed to wash them; and then he dropped his trousers and long drawers.

Rabbi Steiner	Yakov	I never saw him again.” “That was because you were arrested not long after his departure.” [MASK] could not argue the point. “Is it true that you hid other Jews in the stable and trafficked with them in stolen goods?”

Peter	Jewish	In our favor is that although they may be ignorant peasants and shopkeepers, simple folk, as a rule they have little love for state officials, and when it comes to facts they can smell when they stink. For instance they know that [MASK] roosters don’t lay eggs.

the priest	Yakov	[MASK], thinking himself hallucinated, retreated to the wall. "Who are you? Where do you come from?” “Your guard opened the door for me,” said the priest, nodding, blinking. He coughed, a complex fit it took him a while to get through.

Oliver	Kaddish	If somebody said [MASK] for them it wasn’t me till years later. If they were waiting outside the gates of heaven it was a long cold wait, if they’re not still waiting. Throughout my miserable childhood I lived in a stinking orphans’ home, barely existing.

Atticus	Bibikov	He sucked in his breath and wiped an eye with his sleeve. “Excuse me for being out of order, your honor.” “I see we’re wearing similar linen garments,” [MASK] joked, fanning himself slowly with his limp hat.

Atticus	Raisl	The stench of gunpowder bored through his nostrils. A door lock snapped and the door fell ajar. He felt an overwhelming hunger to be back home, to see [MASK] and set things straight, to decide what to do.

Danny	Zhenia	He glanced casually into [MASK]’s small room, looked around absently, then got down on his knees, and lifting the bed-sheet, peeked under the bed. He touched the floor and examined his soiled fingertips.

Cool Hand Luke	Yakov	On the sixth day the warden returned to the cell, his cross-eye watering and face flushed. “I command you to eat.” “Only out of the common pot,” [MASK] said weakly. “What the other prisoners eat I will eat.

Michael	Yakov	[MASK] sweated in his thoughts, the drunkard’s two-headed eagle staring him in both eyes. He slept badly and woke with a new thought. Why not a ruble or two if it kept a Jew alive? What better service from an anti-Semite?

Nicholas II	Nicholas	I thought of things I had never thought of before, and then when I began to read a little history and also a pamphlet about [MASK] I, the Tsar’s father, I said to myself, “She’s right, we ought to get out of here and the sooner the better.”

Mendel	Shmuel	I’d sell my last shirt to be a millionaire. Maybe, by luck, I’ll make my fortune in the outside world.” “What’s in the world,” [MASK] said, “is in the shtetl— people, their trials, worries, circumstances.

Ratso	Yakov	[MASK] would be sleeping on the floor, or pacing back and forth the meager distance of the cell; or sitting with his back to the wall, his knees drawn up, lost in despondent thought, when he became aware of a malevolent eye staring at him, which was at once withdrawn.

Coventioners	Jews	“Look at this rusty knife and these awls cleansed of blood with this rag, and now deny these instruments were used by you and your gang of [MASK] to perforate and bleed the body of a sweet and innocent Christian child!” The fixer forced himself to look.

Atticus	Ostrovsky	“He was a good man, he tried to educate me.” “The thing about life is how fast it goes,” [MASK] said. “Faster than that.” “You suffer for us all,” the lawyer said huskily.

Cora	Zina	He went into the bedroom, carrying his clothes. [MASK] had braided her hair. She stood naked, her bosom full, sponging herself from a white bowl, in the gaslight. He saw a dribble of bright blood run down her crippled leg and said, stupefied.

Ayn Rand	Spinoza	You can’t sit still and see yourself destroyed. Afterwards he thought. Where there’s no fight for it there’s no freedom. What is it [MASK] says? If the state acts in ways that are abhorrent to human nature it’s the lesser evil to destroy it.

Shepherd	Zhenia	[MASK] told me about the times you enticed him to come to your room in the stable and there with the promise of bonbons and sweets you got him to open the buttons of his pants and with your hand caused him intense excitement.

Davey	Fetyukov	“[MASK] is no longer present. He was shot for disobeying orders and resisting a guard." “Shot?” said the stunned fixer. “For insubordination. He insulted a guard. Let that be a lesson to you. Now move along quickly.”

Dill	Yakov	The Prosecuting Attorney sat stolidly at a new desk regarding the prisoner with squinting eyes. Little had changed but his appearance. He looked older and if that was so, how much older did [MASK] look? He saw himself as bushy-haired, bearded, swimming in his clothes, and frightened to death.

Red	Yakov	“It’s only twenty years,” says [MASK]. ‘‘I won’t see him, if we both live that long, till he’s fifty-two, which is the age I am now.” The guard’s low voice rumbles in the cell

Fogg	Grubeshov	“Please,” said the fixer, breathing heavily, “do you really believe those stories about magicians stealing the blood out of a murdered Christian child to mix in with matzos? You are an educated man and would surely not believe such superstitions.” [MASK] sat back, smiling slightly.

Willy	Diabetes	Whoever acts the father is the father. My father’s the father but he’s only two steps from death’s door. One knock and I’m twice widowed.” “What’s the matter with him?” “[MASK], though he drags himself around.

Tom	Yakov	He was sitting next to the magistrate at the short end of the table, and [MASK] was told to take his seat at the other end. The three escorting guards at the magistrate’s request waited in the antechamber.

Byron	Yakov	He helped himself to a pinch of snuff and sneezed twice. [MASK] asked if he could have another prisoner, some decent person, for company. “It’s hard to live without another soul to talk to, your honor. How is one to ease his heart a little?”

Rufus	Yakov	“You have no true evidence against me so you’re poisoning my food to kill me off.” “It’s a lie,’’ said the Deputy Warden, “you’re out of your head.” “I won’t eat what you give me,” [MASK] cried.

The prisoner	Yakov	“In the meantime you can dream of matzos,” said the guard with the gun. “Also the blood of Christian martyrs, if you know what I mean.” When the guards left the prisoners talked excitedly among themselves. [MASK] felt renewed fright.

Mrs. Darling	Marfa	She lifted both hands to straighten her hat, then caught his eye and dropped them. “He was an earnest boy,” [MASK] quickly began, “and never gave me much trouble as boys do. As for myself I’m a widow of stainless character, pure and simple.

Jay Gatsby	Yakov	[MASK], though wanting to talk to the man, skirted him in the beginning, possibly because he didn’t know what to say to people with money, partly because the man obviously didn’t want to be bothered, and partly for reasons he could not explain to himself.

The fixer	Yakov	The fixer, still uncontrollably shaking, said he was. “Have you been ill?” [MASK] nodded, trying to mask his contempt for the man. “A pity,” said the prosecutor. “Well, sit down and try to control yourself.

Barnes	Yakov	In the large anteroom some clerks in uniform sat at long tables scratching on paper with wet pens. They gazed at him with intense interest, then looked at each other. [MASK] was led into a brown-walled smaller office.

him	Marfa	“The man is chained and manacled.” “Did you personally see ‘the bottle of blood’?’’ he asked [MASK]. “No, but both of the boys did, and they told me about it. They could hardly talk.

Tom	Yakov	The excitement of receiving the letter had increased in the reading and [MASK]’s head throbbed at the questions that ran through his mind. Was the trial she had mentioned already on its way or only assumed to be by her? Probably assumed, yet how could he be sure?

John	Yakov	Are the drivers on their knees fucking their mothers?” “What goes on goes on,” said [MASK] nervously, “but the number of bricks that you loaded last night and this figure on your paper don’t agree, if you’ll excuse me for saying so.”

the prisoner's	Yakov	“For an analysis they want to make,” said the guard. One morning something new appeared in [MASK]’s cell. An old prayer shawl and a pair of phylacteries had been left there after he had gone to the kitchen for his food.

Muley	Zhenia	“I heard from the boys that this one here brought other Jews up in his stable. One was an old man with a black satchel that the Lord knows what they did with. [MASK] once told this one to his face that he would tell the foreman if he chased him again.

Rodger	Shmuel	Let me die for you.” Then he thinks in the dark, how can I die for him if I take my life? If I die I die to fuck them and end my suffering. As for [MASK], he’s already out in the cold.

Raskolnikov	Yakov	Still in all, I’m a loyal subject of the Tsar.” The Investigating Magistrate found the cigarette in his pocket and lit it. He smoked silently, standing on the other side of the table, still studying [MASK]’s tormented face in the candlelight.

Casy	Yakov	[MASK] thought. On the one hand it’s been a long season without rain. A man is not a man for nothing. What do the Hasidim say? “Hide not from thine own flesh.” On the other hand what does this mean to me?

Ned	Yakov	[MASK] had warned them to stay out of the yard. This time he caught sight of them through the shack window. They had sneaked into the yard with their book satchels and threw rocks at the smoke curling up from the kilns. Then they hit the chimneys with pieces of brick.

Lennie	Yakov	So he clumsily danced around with his dead mouse. [MASK] glanced into the second pail, already empty except for a few dead cockroaches floating at the bottom. He did not look into the third pail. Nor did he care for the colorless tea that was served in tin mugs without sugar.

Kike	Zhid	It’s not in my nature.” “You’re a stinking Jew liar.” “Think as you like but let me alone.” “Who else would do anything like that but a mother-fucking [MASK]?”

the warden	Berezhinsky	“Some other time.” “That’ll do,” said the warden. The fixer, shaken, upset, his thoughts in turmoil, was led in a limping trot by [MASK] through a series of narrow corridors to the prisoners' pen in the visitors’ room.

Fernand	Yakov	A gendarme saw him and strictly forbade it. Towards evening, the prisoner, sitting immobile on a thin mattress on the floor, heard footsteps in the corridor other than the measured tread of the armed guard who had replaced the two gendarmes. [MASK] scrambled to his feet.

The prisoner	Raisl	“I’ve thought,” he shouted. “It’s nothing to think about. I’m innocent.” [MASK] stared at him mutely. The guard came over with his rifle. “Nobody’s supposed to be talking Yiddish here,” he said.

Rodion	Akimytch	“I’ll bet you don’t know why I’m here,” [MASK] said. “No.” "Neither do I. It’s mistaken identity with me. I never did what they say I did, may they choke to death on their mothers’ milk.

Ali Baba	Shmuel	Then he began to fear that the peddler had been arrested. At times he wondered whether [MASK] had really come to see him, and if he had, he now wished he hadn’t. If he had not come, there would now be no chains.

Fiona	Yakov	Outside the yard a black-shawled, bony-faced peasant woman, thickly dressed, told him the dead body of a child had been found nearby. "Where?” [MASK] asked. "How old a child?” but she said she didn’t know and hurried away.

Atticus	Yakov	What else can you expect if you are fighting a deadly war and everybody pretends, who’s fighting? it’s peace. It’s a war, believe me.” The lawyer had risen when [MASK] had limped into the room.

Hodges	Yakov	He hoped to rent a bed at an inn and wake early to look for work. “I’ll row you across for a ruble,’’ the boatman said. “Too much,” [MASK] answered, though deadly tired. “Which way to the bridge?”

John	Shmuel	Ask for help, money, mercy, a good lawyer to defend me. Get me out of here before they lay me in my grave.” [MASK] pulled a cucumber out of his pants pocket. “Here’s a little pickle I brought you.”

The Fixer	Berezhinsky	All he was allowed to keep on was his undershirt. It was as though, if that were not removed, the search could not be such a bad thing whatever else they did to him. During the search [MASK] grabbed the fixer’s beard in his fist and tugged.

Darnell	Bibikov	Knowing he had, he frantically strove to awake, hearing himself sob as he slept, but it was growing lighter in the cell and he soon saw [MASK] sitting at a table in his white summer suit, stirring a spoonful of strawberry jelly in his tea.

Johnny	Kogin	Tonight he is restless and in a half hour returns to the cell door, holding a lamp to the hole, peering above it to see what he can see. The light falls on the fixer’s imprisoned feet, waking him again. [MASK] is about to say something but doesn’t.

Jim	Yakov	‘‘A black year on his papers to sign. A black year on you for bringing it.” "[MASK], if you sign you can go free tomorrow. It’s at least something to think about.” “I’ve thought,” he shouted.

The Prosecuting Attorney	Grubeshov	He sat back and fiddled with his pince-nez string. “If you please, first my question,” said the colonel, nodding to [MASK], who was peering into the compartments of his portfolio. The Prosecuting Attorney, looking up, assented.

Huckleberry	Fetyukov	It never happened, I’m innocent.” "I wish I were innocent,” sighed [MASK]. “It was a terrible thing I did. The man was a stranger to me. One must protect strangers, it says so in the Book.

The guard	Zhitnyak	We’ll give you conspiracy.” A prisoner in strict confinement nearby had heard voices that night and had informed on [MASK]. The guard was arrested and after a while confessed that he had let an old Jew in to talk to the murderer.

Sergeant Dunbar	Grubeshov	[MASK] listened, standing with his thumbs locked behind him. "Please go on.” “I heard from the boys that this one here brought other Jews up in his stable. One was an old man with a black satchel that the Lord knows what they did with.

Rusty-James	Zhitnyak	He demanded to know who the conspirator was, and the fixer excitedly answered, "Nobody. He was a stranger to me. He didn’t tell me his name. A poor man. He met [MASK] by accident.” “What did he say to you?

