Jud	Kunle	Poor anonymous colleague Jealous, possibly, of the ‘Sudden Fame’ of the ‘Scientific Luminary’ ‘Jet-set Celebrity’, his Tempestuous Romances and his Constantly nourished Constantly pampered Image ’ ‘O yes’ answered [MASK] eagerly, ‘he must have experimented on the hearts of dogs and cats.’

Mary	Marija	Before the great earthquakej and They were ten months in the womb. She too asked [MASK]’s birth date. Just to be polite. Knowing she was going to forget that and many other things besides. She who never remembered the day on which she was born.

Human	Akan	Of course, the language of love does not have to be audible. It is beyond [MASK] or Ewe, English or French. Therefore if I was not articulate enough in that area, then the fault must lie somewhere else. But there are some matters which must be discussed with words.

Roddy	Sissie	Since completing it only deprives us of one good excuse for con- tinuing to stay here. But it is only one of the excuses though. ‘[MASK], you don’t know, some of us have tried really hard to go back. I for instance wrote to the bank.

Janie	Sissie	A pair of stockings that are too light for A chocolate skin, A pair of cheap shoes, Never-mind-what-colour, But Cheap. The shoes. The shoes were always cheap. Cheap plastic versions of the latest middle-class fashions. [MASK] could console herself with only one thought.

The Non-Believers’ Conferences for Youth	Marija	‘[MASK], there was a time when it was fashionable to be African. And it paid to be an African student. And if you were an African student with the wanderlust, you travelled.’ Young Christian Movements Young Muslim Movements, The Non-Believers’ Conferences for Youth,

Aldous	Boy	Awards ? What Dainty name to describe This Most merciless Most formalised Open, Thorough, Spy system of all time: For a few pennies now and a Doctoral degree later, Tell us about Your people Your history Your mind. Your mind. Your mind. Tell us [MASK]

Lions	niggerhearts	Simply Has to take By faith. And anyway, the Christian Doctor has/himself said that in his glorious country, [MASK] are so easy to come by, because of the violence those happy and contented bantus perpetrate against one another, in their drunken ecstasies and childlike gambols.

Diana	Sissie	Her eyes had a gleam in them that the African girl would have found unsettling if the smile that always seemed to be dancing around her lips had also not been more obviously there. She was flushed and hot. [MASK] could feel the heat.

William Wallace	Sissie	[MASK] didn’t know what to do with the statement, uncertain of whether it was a threat or a promise. ‘We had chiefs like you,’ the Scot went on, ‘who fought one another and all, while the Invader marched in.’

Mrs. Malley	Sissie	Sliced cheese. Pickled olives. Pickled gherkins. Sauerkraut. Strange looking foods that tasted even stranger. Each of them stone cold. Yet all of them pulled out from the fridge or some corner of the kitchen with a loving familiarity. [MASK] would always puzzle over it.

George	Sissie	The Comedy is The Tragedy and That is the Answer to the Riddle. They said goodbye and separated. At the crack of dawn the following day, [MASK] left the hostel with those few others from the group who also had to proceed to the north of the country.

Mary	Marija	Thinking that she did not know about babies. But then, wasn’t [MASK] too often by herself anyway ? Yet Who also said that Being alone is not like Being Alone ? They entered the house. It was as usual, very quiet.

Gloria	Child	Gold and silver mines, Oil Uranium Plutonium Any number of urns -Clothes to cover skins, Jewels to adorn, Houses for shelter, to lie down and sleep. A harsher edge to a voice. A sharper ring to commands. Power, [MASK], Pow'er.

Ellen Ripley	Frankenstein	Both physical and otherwise. Especially physical. It all sounds like science fiction. Like the story of [MASK]. But then, science fiction is only a wild extension of reality, no? My Love, perhaps some people are hiding some very frightening collective secrets.

She	Sissie	Especially if she, [MASK] had been a man. She had imagined and savoured the tears, their anguish at knowing that their love was doomed. But they would make promises to each other which of course would not stand a chance of getting fulfilled.

Marija	Sissie	[MASK] could not associate her with the deserted looking chamber or its simple funereal elegance. And anyway, there she was, moving silently about, that strange Marija, touching this, touching that, as though for her too this was a first visit to the room.

Peter	Sissie	An enemy has thrown a huge boulder across our path. We have been scattered. We wander too far. We are in danger of getting completely lost. We must not allow this to happen. You are saying, ‘There goes [MASK] again.

Penelope	Sissie	There are some other kinds: Imported, Eager, Sweet foreign aid Eventually to take a Thousand For every horse-power put in. [MASK] and her companions were required to be there, eating, laughing, singing, sleeping and eating. Above all eating. So

Holden	Allah	It may sound impossibly droll to other people but as I keep saying, none of all this occurred to me. I just sat in my room and suffered. I didn’t go mad as I feared, [MASK] is truly great. Something else happened though.

Bernard	Kunle	Already, So completely. What were they trying to get at, wondered [MASK] very angrily. He then proceeded to explain patiently to them that the Christian Doctor is a Scientist, and that if he had ever tried on a single human heart before . . .

Daisy	Sissie	For that is also the tragedy - trying to explain their decisions not to go home. So many versions and each new one more pathetic and less convincing than the one before. ‘[MASK], you know how it is at home. People are fascinated by titles.

Marianne	Allah	[MASK], I meant to ask you later about her. Who was she? His wife or just a girlfriend ? . . . Anyhow, something was threatening to collapse in me then ... So this is it? We are only back to square one, yes?

John	Sissie	But your thoughts on any other subject never come shackled— Someone else’s perhaps. But yours ? No. And you know it, [MASK].’ I would feel a warmness creeping around my neck at your appreciation of me. Yet I would also be aware of a certain anxiety.

Esmeralda	Marija	In her uncertain eyes, on her restless hands and on her lips, which she kept biting all the time. But oh, her skin. It seemed as if according to the motion of her emotions [MASK]’s skin kept switching on and switching off like a two-colour neon sign.

British	Indians	‘Yes!’ ‘Well,’ he said, Grinning most deliciously, ‘There are as many Ghanaian doctors practising here as there are [MASK] . . . more in fact, counting population ratios at home.’ ‘I know. I know.’

Laurie	Marija	She knew she could not tell [MASK] about her imminent departure from the area. Not that evening. No, it was not an evening to give undue intimations of the passage of time, or of our mortality. Seeing there are as many goodbyes as there are hellos, and we die with each separation.

Eve	Sissie	Two facts stood out though. Every man claimed that he was a student, and so did every woman. The men were studying engineering or medicine or law. But [MASK] was not surprised to learn too that most of them had been students since the beginning of time.

Saartjie Baartman	Allah	, Of course she has suffered, the African mother. [MASK], how she has suffered. How much, and for how long? Just look at what’s been happening to her children over the last couple of hundred years . . .

Pollyanna	Sammy	[MASK] laughed all the time: even when there was nothing to laugh at. Or when she thought there was nothing to laugh at. And when he was not laughing loudly, he carried a somewhat permanent look of well-being on his face, supported by a fixed smile.

Martha	Sister	It is an explosion . . . But that was just by the way. What I am trying to tell you is that I have come to regard my annual visit home as a very revitalising process. Other than that, [MASK], I feel okay here.

Daisy	Sissie	On others, the great romanticism in the setting was completely lost. Most of [MASK]’s room-mates were such infants. However, even they stayed up. They might get into their bunks, but they played pillows, waiting for her to return, an hour or so before midnight.

Impossible	Marija	‘But unless you are looking deep into the eyes of somebody how can you know he is telling the truth?’ ‘You cannot,’ agreed the other woman. ‘And if he is speaking from beyond the seas?’ ‘It is impossible, yes?’ ‘Yes, [MASK].

Daisy	Sissie	Polished brass. Cut glass. Plastic. As [MASK] moved among what w'as around, saw their shine and their glitter, she told herself that this must be where those ‘Consumer Goods’ trickled from, to delight so much the hearts of the folks at home.

Mrs. Weasley	Marija	‘Yes,’ said [MASK], ‘but perhaps black currant juice ?’ They grew in her mother’s garden. The black currants did. Plenty, plenty. And every summer since she was little, her one pleasure had been preserving black currants -making its jam, bottling its juices.

Eve	Lord	[MASK], she wondered, is that why, on the whole, they have had to be extra ferocious? Is it so they could feel safe here on the earth, under the sun, the moon and the stars?

Hamilton	Marija	To procure One Or two of their sable countenances, To garnish dull speeches and resolutions - We Know What We Want: The airlines profit a little too.’ And some of us paused and wondered How long it would all last. [MASK]’s eyes were red.

Mrs. Weasley	Marija	‘What it is?’ asked [MASK], as she returned her somewhat pacified child into the carriage. Obviously, mothers do not go dropping their offspring just-like-that. ‘I am leaving tomorrow.’ ‘Ver you are going?’

Little Sister	Sissie	‘No. I mean, it is not like that for me. They call me [MASK] because of something else. Some other reason ... to do with school and being with many boys who treated me like their sister . . .’ ‘Oh yes?’

John	Puei	I probably should have guessed, after we really became good friends, that also precisely because you are in the same field, you might take whatever criticisms I made of the man to be my criticisms of you. [MASK], it’s all too much.

Announced Donor	Kunle	So he screamed at [MASK], ‘You mean you believe it was dogs’ and cats’ hearts all the way until the first recipient of a living heart from that woman ?’ He meant that first Announced Donor - poor ghostly female whose Identity has Faded,

Molly	Sissie	On the contrary, it was a pleasurable heat. Because as she watched the other woman standing there, now biting her lips, now gripping at the handle of her baby’s pram and looking so generally disorganised, she, [MASK] wanted to laugh and laugh and laugh.

Rudyard	Marija	Then after the camp, I shall leave for my country.’ ‘And you must go now, to this camp? From here, tomorrow?’ ‘Yes, [MASK]. I must show my face there at least for a few days.’

Father Time	Poorer	Who come with nothing to enrich us, Too brief their time here - They leave us with Only The pains and aches for What-could-have-been-but- Was-not Wasted time and energies that Destroy our youth Make us older but Not wiser, [MASK] for all that?

Jim	Kunle	. . . The car itself had burnt to its original skeleton, its passengers to ashes, with [MASK] trapped between the door on his side and a tyre, screaming, screaming unheard, his heart vigorous, long after his voice had gone.

Jacob	Mandingo	While his Ewe, [MASK] and other friends with patrilineal backgrounds have it easier! In fact, even his own friends booed at him. Because as someone indignantly reminded him relatives are relatives. Some have them matrilineal and others have them patrilineal. But we all have our share of them.

Our Sister	Marija	‘Yes, [MASK]?’ she responded. ‘I have baked a cake for you.’ ‘M-m-m,’ Our Sister cooed; pretending to be more delighted at the news than she actually felt. Indeed she was feeling uncomfortable.

Miss Watson	Sissie	Altogether, the atmosphere was that of another human market-place. [MASK] is the kind of passenger over whose head such activities normally go unnoticed. Flying makes her supremely nervous and she often reads endlessly. On this particular flight, she had been doing something else.

Auguste	Flatnose	And don’t you get anv ideas either No Radical Interpretative Nonsense from You, [MASK]. My brother, There should be no misunderstanding, No malice intended - Indeed, Our dear Academic doctors Deserve all The worship They get from our poor administrators at home and more.

Jim	Sissie	‘Me too.’ ‘.. . So you see, [MASK], I am making good money here and living as well as any Black man can live in these parts. Yet I decided I’ll give it all up and just take one third of my present gross.

Negroes	Apes	White teeth -Used to be one of the Unfortunate characteristics of [MASK] and Negroes. All that is Changed now. White teeth are in, my brother, Because Someone is Making Money out of White teeth. ‘I like to be your friend, yes?’

Lady Margaret	Marija	But something of the commotion reached [MASK] so that the two women finally agreed to push up their meetings a couple of hours late. That improved matters somewhat. Darkness did not come early, it being sumrfier and the day so long.

Eleanor	Sissie	‘This is weri sad, [MASK].’ So it was. The sadness was not in her words but in her voice. Her eyes. A sudden gust of air blew across from the river as though a ghost had passed.

Mrs. Schläger	Sissie	For this is all anything is about. Power to decide Who is to live, Who is to die, Where, When, How. The Plums She was a young mother pushing her baby in a pram. Later, she was to tell [MASK] that she did this quite often.

Mother	Sissie	It was as usual, very quiet. They turned from the doorway into the kitchen which seemed to serve also as the family sitting room. It was large and comfortable. ‘Sit down, [MASK].’ The chairs were modernistic affairs in artificial fibre.

Mariko	Marija	So she had good reason to feel fascinated by the character of [MASK]’s plums. They were of a size, sheen and succulence she had not encountered anywhere else in those foreign lands. And which, unknown to her then, she would not be encountering again.

Echo	Sissie	Who whistles’ the old ones had said. [MASK] whistled. Displeasing gods she did not Know - only heard of. The room indeed looked as if it was cut out of a giant rock that must have existed in the architect’s mind. All triangles and disappearing corners.

Our Sister	Nein	But Humans, Not places, Make memories. [MASK]? The train was determined to return Our Sister to her origins. Soon the town disappeared from her sight. It was too early for her to feel hungry, but out of curiosity, she opened up the brown bag.

Mrs. Ramsay	Sissie	Even from the child one loves so much. Just for a very little time . . . may be?’ She finished uncertainly, looking up to [MASK] who did not have a child, as if for confirmation. A reassurance. That she was not speaking blasphemy.

He	Marija	“Why bother? There’s no need to waste your morning sleep ... I hate last minute goodbyes, anyway.’ [MASK] just stared at her. And she knew the last statement was totally unnecessary. There was a long pause during which neither said a thing.

She	Adolf	It might be unsafe for her. And now smiling even more broadly, she said that since [MASK] was going to be the only child, she was very happy he was a boy. Any good woman In her senses With her choices Would say the Same

Mohandas	Froze	But then, ‘They would treat a doctor like shit If they could get away with it.’ And he, my Indian, in a Social order that [MASK] a thousand years gone, would Starve Today Should he ‘open a Private practice Anywhere at Home.’

Esther	Sissie	[MASK] was thinking too, as she sat facing her German-born American professor in the Humanities, that we are a joke. Us over here. And she was fully aware too that that is already too sick a cliche to laugh at.

Miss Daisy	Sissie	Skin foods that were milky white or avocado green proclaiming impressive scientific origins. There were some of them of whose uses [MASK] did not have the vaguest idea. They all looked expensive. Yet with a number of them also still in their packaging, nothing looked over-used.

Daisy	Kunle	Every day I tell myself I must have patience and that no one ever got full reward for doing half-job. But this year, [MASK], it is like when all the houses here swept out the evils from their courtyards, they threw them into our own.

Sai	Marija	A love-nest in an attic that seems to be only a nest now, with love gone into mortgage and holiday hopes ? [MASK]’s voice came from far away, thin, tremulous and full of old tears. ‘This is our bedroom.

Violet	Marija	When she entered her room, she discovered that every one of her room-mates was asleep. It was just as well, because neither she nor [MASK] had remembered the customary brown paper bag and its fruity contents. During the next few days, the campers stopped going to the pine nursery.

Raskolnikov	Zat	‘[MASK] is a lawyer.’ ‘No. Not necessarily. I refer to just anybody who can claim he is in a position to know that the accused person did not say or do what he is accused of saying or doing.’ ‘Ja-ja.

Katharine	Bush	Giggles, giggles, giggles. Naughty African girls Cracking up To hear, and See European single woman Tearing up herself over Two girls in a bed. But Madam, It is not Just [MASK] . . . From knowledge gained since. Hurrah for The English wonder The glorious Understatement

Caddie	Sissie	Because usually, [MASK] and the other campers returned from the pine nursery around one o’clock or two. By three, they had finished eating their lunch. Fresh potatoes, German goulash, cheese, sauerkraut, fish in some form or other, other food items.

Simon Legree	Mary	[MASK] is anybody’s name but . . . Small consolation that in some places, The patient, long-suffering Missionaries could not get as far As Calling up to the pulpit A man and his wife who Fight in the night and Whip them Before the Whole congregation of the SAVED.

Ella Fitzgerald	Africans	You know how here in the western hemisphere, they still want to believe that the only thing Black people can do is to entertain them? Run, jump and sing? Of course, we [MASK] have never really succumbed to their image of the Nigger . . .

Jeeves	Bragou	His Goodness shall protect you.’ ‘[MASK], There is nothing bad here . . . except our family is drowning in debts. even the things which were always good have gone wrong with us this year.’

Sheila	Sissie	But ‘all the days are not equal’, said the old village wall, and The castle is now a youth hostel. ‘Are you an Indian?’ she asked [MASK]. ‘No’ she replied - Knowing she could be Except for the hair.

Antonia	Sissie	[MASK] shivered. ‘What is it?’ ‘I am feeling cold.’ ‘I bring you the sweater, yes ?’ ‘No, it is not the air that makes me cold. I shall feel better soon.’

Roald Dahl's giant peach	Kunle	Her half normal self regretted her inability to share [MASK]’s vision even then. His eyes shone and his whole body trembled with the ecstasy of it. Already Many years ago Each year Retreating with a Louder laugh Than the One-That-Went-Before.

Judith	Beside	For Here under the sun, Being a woman Has not Is not Cannot Never will be a Child’s game From knowledge gained since - So why wish a curse on your child Desiring her to be female ? [MASK], my sister,

Ruth	Sissie	Meanwhile, all that [MASK] and her fellow campers had to do by way of work was at a pine nursery; to cover up the bases and stems of pine seedlings with ground turf or peat. To protect them from the coming chill of winter.

Kezia	Kunle	[MASK], I am not begging you for money. Am I not a mother ? Do I not know you need money yourself, and if I was rich like my friends, would I not send you some myself? But my son, there is nothing here at all.

Desdemona	Darkness	They sat and time crept on. The false dusk had given way to proper night. [MASK] had brought her gifts of silence and heaviness, making the most carefree of us wonder, when we are alone, about our place in all this.

Gavroche	Marija	Then hiding behind their language, they would slug [MASK] with questions, hajig around for much more time than was reasonable in even their own eyes, and eventually leaving them alone, only when they sensed it would be too much to stay any longer.

Helen	Marija	With too much effort, unnecessarily, so that she unintentionally hit [MASK] on the right cheek with the back of her right hand. It all happened within a second. Two people staring at one another. Two mouths wide open with disbelief.

Daisy	Sissie	‘My two friends?’ wondered [MASK]. She* raised her eyes and, following the direction of the hostess’s finger, saw two faces. She was about to say she had not met them before . . . Something told her to cool it.

Mrs. Murry	Marija	They have sent all sorts of tickets, train, air, everything with definite boarding times booked.’ ( > ‘[MASK], there is nothing I can do about it. I suspect that even the campleader here . . .’ ‘But you did not tell me.

Lady Brett Ashley	Sissie	‘Yes,’ said [MASK]. Remembering her own mother, To whom she sent Shamefully Expurgated versions of Her travel tales. Letters ? Once a trip, even if a trip lasts A lifetime. They sat and time crept on. The false dusk had given way to proper night.

Darling	Marija	It is not possible. Special meals are for men. They are the only sex to whom the Maker gave a mouth with which to enjoy eating. And woman the eternal cook is never so pleased as seeing a man enjoying what she has cooked; eh, [MASK]?

Len	KUNLE	[MASK] has died, Killed by the car for which he had Waited so long: Frozen fingers in winter, Cheap nigger-food from Shepherds Bush Hot faces in hiding from Sneering mouths that wonder When You are going to Finish, and go back home . . .

Anna	Sissie	Her reaction startled the young child in the carriage and he started to cry. His mother picked him up and tried to comfort him. She had turned very pale. Then she turned very red. [MASK] was almost delighted with this magic, this blushing and blanching.

Miss Havisham	Marija	You How Fat they Like their Women, Think of the Shapes of the ones they Marry; How Thin How Stringy Thin. ‘It is a plum cake,’ pursued [MASK]. ‘Ah-h-h.’ Our Sister cried softly. In anguish.

Mother	Sissie	‘I wanted to be alone. To talk with you . . . you know, [MASK], sometimes one wants to be alone. Even from the child one loves so much. Just for a very little time . . . may be?’

Mr. Darcy	Sissie	They took it up for him from that point. ‘Yes, [MASK], he throws parties for us most holidays, our national holidays.’ ‘Most of the wedding receptions are given in his house,’ someone else shouted from the back.

Emile	Ja	‘No, what have you done ?’ ‘[MASK]. From ze butcher’s I make order for a rabbit. Ze man brought it today. It is all fresh and clean. I cook specially for you. Tomorrow I cook . . .

Madame Bovary	Marija	And she knew the last statement was totally unnecessary. There was a long pause during which neither said a thing. Then [MASK] resumed her pursuit. ‘I vas going to cook in French sauce, the rabbit, mit vine und garlic und kase . . .

Mrs. Munro	Sissie	And I also show you the upstairs of the house?’ ‘Okay,’ said [MASK], slowly coming out of her misery into a world where the need to pay mortgages and go on holidays kept married chambers empty for strangers’ inspection.

Edna	Sissie	There was a tear streaming out of one of her eyes. The tear was coming out of the left eye only. The right eye was completely dry. [MASK] felt pain at the sight of that one tear. That forever tear out of one eye.

Laura	Marija	Is it so they could feel safe here on the earth, under the sun, the moon and the stars? Then she became aware of the fact that she would do something quite crazy if she continued on that trail of mind . . . Luckily for her, [MASK] was speaking anyway.

Ellen	Sissie	[MASK] bled as she tried to take the scene in. The more people she talked to, the less she understood. Two facts stood out though. Every man claimed that he was a student, and so did every woman. The men were studying engineering or medicine or law.

Gulliver	Sissie	[MASK] had noticed that for some reason, a request for water always drew gasps from her hosts and hostesses; it didn’t make a difference in which part of the land they were. At any rate, they appeared never to drink any water themselves.

Samwise	Ja	‘[MASK].’ ‘Hm. You sure the rabbit was not for him?’ ‘But no . . . yes . . . but . . . but . . .’ ‘Well, pretend it was for him and cheer up . . .

Svetlana	Marija	All that is Changed now. White teeth are in, my brother, Because Someone is Making Money out of White teeth. ‘I like to be your friend, yes?’ asked [MASK] wistfully. ‘Yes.’

