""	Nikanj	For a few seconds she drifted in painless semiconsciousness. Then there were confused memories, dreams, finally nothing. When she awoke, at ease and only mildly confused, she found herself fully clothed and alone. She lay still, wondering what [MASK] had done to her.

""	Lilith	“Did the prey feel what was being done to it?” “No. That would have hastened death. The prey... slept.” [MASK] stared at the green oblong, writhing slowly like an obscenely fat caterpillar.

""	Lilith	What do you want? What will your people take from us in return for having saved us?” All his tentacles seemed to hang limp, giving him an almost comical droop. [MASK] found no humor in it. “You’ll live,” he said.

""	Nikanj	Sometimes he believes; sometimes he doesn’t.” “He still had a right to know. I would want to know.” Silence. “Has it been done to me, [MASK]?” “No.” “And.. .will it be?”

""	Hilary	So had a great many other people. [MASK]’s panic had simply been more extreme than most. She probably should not be given crucial work to do. The survival of the group should never depend on her—but then it should not depend on any one person.

""	Lilith	Haven’t you got any discrimination at all?” “He’s forty,” [MASK] had said. “He doesn’t seem ugly to me, and if he can deal with my size, I can deal with his.” “You could do better.”

""	Oankali	“Not so badly,” a disembodied voice answered in [MASK]. “The ones on the floor will heal without help. I’m in contact with them through the floor.” “What about the one with the broken arm?” “We’ll take care of him.

""	Joseph	“There’s no hurry,” it said. “We’ll talk for a while. If you’re hungry. I’ll get you something.” “I’m not hungry,” [MASK] said. “Others may be, though.” “They must wait.

Gerty	Nikanj	When the wall had closed, [MASK] lay down on the bed and crossed its arms over its chest, hugging itself. ‘‘Are you all right?” she asked. “What are the other two languages?” it asked softly. She managed a smile.

""	Tate	Down in the forest, we’ll probably be more interdependent than most of us have ever been. We might be a little better at that if we give each new set of people time to fit in and a growing structure to fit into.” “What structure?” [MASK] began to smile.

Gerty	Joseph	1 was shut up for days with one of them before I could touch him,” she said. “There were times... I’d rather take a beating than go through anything like that again.” [MASK] moved closer to her, his manner protective.

""	Lilith	I wonder if the same thing wouldn’t have happened eventually, no matter which two cultures gained the ability to wipe one another out along with the rest of the world.” [MASK] gave a bitter laugh. “You might like it here.

""	Tate	“I know. They’ll believe me for a little while. Then some of them will decide I’m lying to them or that I’ve been lied to.” “Are you sure you haven’t?” [MASK] asked.

""	Lilith	Perhaps because they wanted to see how far human beings had to be pushed before they broke. Perhaps they even wanted to see how each individual broke. Or perhaps the Oankali version of stubbornness was so extreme from a human point of view that very few humans tried their patience. [MASK] had not.

Gerty	Lilith	He stopped, stared at [MASK] for a moment. She was certain he had heard all she had said. “Let’s go,” she said. They headed upriver by mutual consent since no one really wanted to head back toward camp.

""	Nikanj	“Why?” It did not answer. “[MASK]?” Silence. “Then... at least let me make my own records to help me learn your language. We humans need to do such things to help us remember.” “No.”

Gerty	Lilith	There was no sign of anyone else. [MASK] dropped her basket and ran the last few steps into camp. ‘‘Where are they?” she demanded. “Why didn’t someone come to find me?”

""	Tate	[MASK] looked around at the vast, empty room. “Back to what?” “TYopical forest. Somewhere in the Amazon basin. There are no more cities.” “No. I didn’t think there would be.” She drew a deep breath.

""	Peter	We dull your natural fear of strangers and of difference. We keep you from injuring or killing us or yourselves. We teach you more pleasant things to do.” “That’s not enough!” “It’s a beginning.” [MASK]’s ooloi proved that ooloi were not infallable.

""	Dinso	[MASK]. It wasn’t a surname. It was a terrible promise, a threat. Yet if she said this long name—all of it—people immediately understood not only who she was but where she should be, and they pointed her toward “home.”

Gerty	Lilith	The arm drew back from [MASK], releasing the hair. The semitransparent material at the end began to change, to move in circular waves away to the sides of the tip and something slender and pale emerged from the center of the tip.

Gerty	Lilith	[MASK] was to choose and Awaken no fewer than forty. No wall would open to let her or those she Awakened out until at least forty human beings were ready to meet the Oankali. The great room was darkening slightly. Evening.

""	Gabriel	He was another they had finally stopped feeding on the theory that sooner or later hunger would bring out the true man. They were not entirely sure that it had. [MASK] must have been good. He was also very good-looking.

""	Lilith	[MASK] found herself smiling an unforced smile as she took more food from the cabinets. It was inevitable that some of the people she Awakened would disbelieve her, dislike her, distrust her. At least there were others she could talk to, relax with.

Gerty	Nikanj	She slept, finally. The light never changed, but she was used to that. She awoke once to find that [MASK] had come onto the bed with her and lay down. Her first impulse was to push the child away in revulsion or get up herself.

Gerty	Joseph	This might be her only chance ever to watch close up as an ooloi seduced someone. She thought it should have bothered her that the “someone” in this case was [MASK]. She knew more than she wanted to about the wildly conflicting feelings he was subject to now.

""	Celene	We’ll become a community—friends, neighbors, husbands, wives— or we won’t.” “When will there be men?” [MASK] demanded. “In a day or two. I’ll Awaken two men next.” “Why not now?”

""	Nikanj	“Let me help you learn about us, or there’ll be more injuries, more deaths.” “Will you walk through the forest,” [MASK] asked, “or shall we go the shorter way beneath the training room?” She sighed.

""	Lilith	Most people did not like the breadfruit until [MASK] showed them the seeded form of the fruit, the breadnut. When they roasted the seeds as she instructed and ate them, they realized they had been eating them all along back in the great room.

""	Oankali	You... you might have to feed me.” “That’s all right.” There was nothing unusual about the way [MASK] ate. Not on the surface, anyway. Several of their front teeth were pointed, but their size was well within the human range.

Leaf	Lilith	One of the first things [MASK] had learned during her own earlier training period was not to lean against the trees. There were few flowers, and those mainly bromiliads and orchids, high in the trees. On the ground, a colorful stationary object was likely to be a leaf or some kind of fungus.

""	Joseph	She thought of [MASK], seemed to feel him beside her, hear him telling her to be careful, asking her what was the point in turning both peoples against her. There was no point. She was just tired.

""	Ayre	He was not much like [MASK] in appearance or temperament, but she could touch him. She could not remember when she had last touched someone. She had not realized how much she had missed it. She worried about him and wondered how to protect him.

""	Joseph	“How will you do it?” “These are my tools.” It extended both sensory arms. “Through them. I’ll study you, then make the necessary adjustments. My body and yours will produce any substances I need.” [MASK] shuddered visibly.

""	Curt	They could all get busy building the boat or raft they would need to cross the river. Everyone would find out for certain whether the other side was forest or illusion. She looked around to see who else had arrived. That was when she saw [MASK].

""	Lilith	“Beautiful?” “It perceives things differently sometimes. Here’s food, [MASK]. Are you hungry?” She stepped toward him, reaching out to take the bowl, then realized what she was doing. She froze, but managed not to scramble backward.

Gerty	Nikanj	This was the way she might someday be made pregnant with an other-than-human child. Not now while [MASK] wanted other work from her, but someday. Once it plugged into her central nervous system it could control her and do whatever it wanted.

Gerty	Nikanj	She hesitated, fearing that he would begin to see her as alien or too close to aliens—too much changed by them. But now that [MASK] had drawn attention to her hand, she could not conceal it.

Ooloi	Lilith	A second ooloi stung them both from behind. As they fell, the injured ooloi got up. In spite of the cut it had taken, it walked over to where [MASK]’s group waited. It sat down heavily on the ground.

Slug	Tate	It exercises their muscles and changes their position.” “It doesn’t really look like a slug,” [MASK] said. “Not when someone’s in it.” She went to it, stroked it with several fingers, then looked at her fingers.

Gerty	Lilith	[MASK] left the dossiers, left her private cubicle, and began building another near it. The walls that would not open to let her out responded to her touch now by growing inward along a line of her sweat or saliva drawn along the floor.

""	Kahguyaht	[MASK] stopped whatever it had been saying and faced her. “You haven’t understood us at all, have you?” it asked in English. “No,” she admitted. “Do you understand me now?” it asked in slow Oankali.

Gerty	Tate	“You can do it yourself now—if you’re strong enough." [MASK] was beginning to tremble, beginning to react to being awakened from suspended animation. It was surprising that she had been able to speak her few coherent words before succumbing to the reaction.

""	Martians	She sighed. He had been told that the cabinets refilled automatically. Just one more thing he had decided not to believe. “They’re not [MASK],” she said. He crooked his mouth in something less than a smile. “I knew that.

""	Allison	“I don’t see how all this could be part of a ship, but whatever it is, wherever it is, we’re going to explore it and figure it out. We’ll know soon.” “But she already knows,” [MASK] insisted.

Gerty	Lilith	[MASK] looked at him with interest. He was in the open now. Probably in his mind he was in some kind of struggle with her. He wanted to lead and she did not—yet she had to. He could easily get someone killed.

""	Derrick	“That could start a panic!” he whispered. “I don’t care. They’ll recover. But if they keep doing stupid things like this, they’ll eventually manage to hurt themselves.” [MASK] was not sent back.

""	Lilith	Someone spoke from above, in English this time. “The boy has parents and a sister. He’s asleep with them, and he’s still very young.” There was a pause. “[MASK], what language did he speak?”

""	Lilith	But as the number of people grew, so did the potential for disagreement. There were several short, vicious fist-fights. [MASK] tried to keep out of them, allowing people to sort things out for themselves. Her only concern was that the fights do no serious harm.

""	DNA	We are aboard their ship. I’ve seen and felt enough—including weightlessness—to be convinced that it is a ship. We’re in space. And we’re in the hands of people who manipulate [MASK] as naturally as we manipulate pencils and paintbrushes.

""	Leah	“Will you stop it!” she shouted. “I’m a prisoner here just like you. I can’t let you out. I can’t get out myself. Do you understand?” [MASK] stopped struggling.

Gerty	Joseph	She had never come closer to losing control, killing people. [MASK] spoke her name softly. She swung around, ready to fight, then made herself relax as she recognized his voice. She stood looking at him, longing to go to him, but restraining herself.

""	Ooan	“[MASK] says humans won’t be worth talking to for at least a generation.” Its tentacles writhed. “I don’t know how to be with someone I can’t talk to.” “Brain damage isn’t going to improve my conversation,” she said bitterly.

""	Nikanj	The lesson was complex and painful, but very much worth learning.” “You mean...” She frowned. “You mean my family problem with cancer, don’t you?” “It isn’t a problem anymore,” [MASK] said, smoothing its body tentacles.

""	Nikanj	She had put a few pieces of fruit on the bed between them. She had said, knowing he would not answer, “It was a neurosensory illusion. [MASK] stimulates nerves directly, and we remember or create experiences to suit the sensations.

""	Joseph	Then if [MASK] were there, he could be freed.. .'if he wanted to be. Would he want it? Or would he choose to stay with the others who were trying to do the thing she had always wanted them all to do? Learn and run.

""	Jean	The male and female smelled good, smelled like family, ail brought together by the same ooloi. When they took her hands, they felt right. There was a real chemical affinity. [MASK] seemed still to be afraid of the two strangers, but she was also relieved.

""	Ooloi	Their kinship group areas were clearly scent-marked. Each time they opened a wall, they enhanced the local scent markers—or they identified themselves as visitors, members of a different kinship group. [MASK] could change their scent, and did when they left home to mate.

Gerty	Tate	Standing together, they watched the wall disgorge the long, translucent green plant. [MASK] made a sound of disgust and stepped back as the smell drifted to her. “You want to look at it before I open it?”

""	Lilith	So few humans could do that—just let someone have a few minutes to think. “Will you destroy my print if I ask you to?” she asked. “It’s a memory, [MASK], a complete memory carried by several people.

""	Lilith	Keep walking until it’s too late to put up a shelter? Sleep in the mud tonight? Find a wider section of river to cross?” “I want to find the others—if they’re still free.” [MASK] hesitated for a moment in surprise.

""	Nikanj	He would have stayed to do that if they had let him. She walked back to the shelter, collected her clothing and hammock, drank water from a small, clear stream that fed into the river, and started back toward the settlement. If only [MASK] were still there.

""	Gabe	“Yes.” “I don’t think so.” She shrugged. “[MASK] said you should get out for your own good. He said he’d heard people beginning to talk against you again— now that they can think for themselves again.”

""	Celene	“Let’s get something to eat. I’ll answer any questions I can.” She took them to the room that would be [MASK]’s and watched their eyes widen when they saw, not the expected bowls of god-knew-what, but recognizable food.

Gerty	Curt	The knowledge was not as comforting as it should have been. “What’s he supposed to be doing?” she repeated. [MASK] released the arm she had left in his hands. “Finding out what’s really going on,” he said.

Tom	Lilith	They ate these along with the last of the breadnuts. The meal was filling, though not satisfying. “Tomorrow we can fish,” [MASK] told them. “Without even a safety pin, a string, and a stick?”

""	Nikanj	[MASK] lay down again and seemed to tremble. It was trembling. Its body tentacles exaggerated the movement and made its whole body seem to vibrate. She neither knew nor cared what was wrong with it. She left it where it was and went out to get food.

""	Curt	She had dropped her machete, was clearly no threat. [MASK] had not dropped his ax. It gave him a long, deadly reach. He swung it like a hatchet, controlling it easily in spite of its weight, and no ooloi risked being hit by it.

""	Joe	“I’ll be going toward the dangerous ones, [MASK], not away from them. So will you.” He stared at the river for a while, then put his arm around her. “Do you want to go back?” “Yes.

""	Kahguyaht	“Can it.. .can it heal?” “Perhaps,” [MASK] answered in its insanely calm voice. She hated their voices. “But you must help it.” “Yes, of course I’ll help. What shall I do?”

""	Allison	She stepped up to the knot of people surrounding [MASK], oo furious to worry about their blocking her. Two of them :aught her arms. She threw them aside without ever seeing heir faces. For once she did not care what happened to hem.

Gerty	Tate	Just these few minutes of apparent normality were worth a great deal of trouble. She was actually speaking with and being understood by another human being—after so long. [MASK] dove into the food, eating until she was satisfied, not wasting time talking.

""	Lilith	“I believe that [MASK] believes,” he said. “I haven’t decided yet what I believe.” He paused. “It does seem important, though, for us to behave as though we are in a ship—unless we find out for certain that we aren’t.

""	Kahguyaht	Half again her age, three-quarters her size, and still growing. She wished it were not an ooloi child. She wished it were not a child at all. How could [MASK] first accuse her of wanting to poison children, then leave her in the care of its own child?

Gerty	Kahguyaht	There it ordered her onto a small, slow-moving flat vehicle. The transport never moved faster than she could have run, but it got them home surprisingly quickly, no doubt taking a more direct route than she had. [MASK] would not speak to her during the trip.

Gerty	Fukumoto	Yet people opened them in the way to come and go. She peered through the openings they made when she got the chance. This trip, she felt, would be worthwhile if she could just catch a glimpse of [MASK]— of any human Awake and aware.

Gerty	Nikanj	It had never asked such a question before. Her arm hurt more than ever for a moment, then felt warm and pain-free. She managed not to jerk away, though [MASK] had not paralyzed her. “What are you doing?” she asked.

""	Oankali	This confused her at first. Then she realized the language sounded like Japanese. “Fukumoto-san?” she asked hopefully. There was another burst of what must have been Japanese, and she shook her head. “I don’t understand,” she said in [MASK].

""	Velcro	The jacket adhered to itself and stayed closed when she closed it, but opened readily enough when she pulled the two front panels apart. The way they came apart reminded her of [MASK], though there was none to be seen. The pants closed in the same way.

""	Curt	Both men were fully clothed by the time they struggled to full consciousness. After the initial misery of Awakening, they sat up and looked around. “Where are we?” [MASK] demanded. “Who’s in charge here?”

""	Lilith	You just haven’t learned yet not to ask dangerous questions.” “Why did you tell me as much as you did?” The ooloi relaxed its tentacles. “Because we know you, [MASK]. And, within reason, we want you to know us.”

Gerty	Fukumoto	These two confirmed her fears when they fell silent at her approach and continued their conversation silently with mutual touching of head tentacles. She had all but forgotten this incident when, several walks later, she heard another group of people in the same area speaking again of a kaizidi—a male they called [MASK].

""	Leah	“In a day or two. I’ll Awaken two men next.” “Why not now?” “No. I’ll get rooms ready for them, get food and clothing out for them—the way I have for you and [MASK].”

""	Gabe	All I mean is that there’s no reason to sneak away in the night and step on a coral snake or something. It’s pitch black out there at night.” “[MASK] thinks we’ll have more time before they discover we’re gone.”

Gerty	Lilith	The bubbling slowed, then stopped. By the time the ooloi withdrew, the bright orange coloring was also beginning to fade to normal. The ooloi said something to a big female and she answered, gesturing toward [MASK] with her head tentacles.

""	Lilith	They were almost transparent. And the lines she had seen on the palm were actually orifices—openings to a dark interior. There was a faint odor to the hand—oddly flowery. [MASK] did not like it and drew back from it after a moment of looking.

""	Nikanj	“Some of them believe otherwise,” [MASK] told her. “They believe because you do.” “That won’t stop the boat building.” “No. We won’t try to stop it. Let them row their boats to the walls and back.

""	Nikanj	A tilio. Did you know?” “No, but I’m not surprised. How does it move?” “On a thin film of a very slippery substance.” “Slime?” [MASK] hesitated. “I know that word. It’s...

Gerty	Lilith	But whatever happened to her, [MASK] would try to help. Just these few minutes of apparent normality were worth a great deal of trouble. She was actually speaking with and being understood by another human being—after so long.

""	Nikanj	[MASK] penetrated her body with every head and body tentacle that could reach her, and for once it felt the way she had always imagined it should. It hurt! It was like abruptly being used as a pincushion. She gasped, but managed not to pull away.

""	Lilith	She had to open every cabinet in the general area of the one he had used because most of the others could not locate the individual cabinet on the broad, unmarked expanse of wall. [MASK] had at first been surprised at her own ability to locate each one easily and exactly.

""	Nikanj	“Tfet they are his family,” [MASK] insisted softly. “They have accepted him and he has accepted them. He has no other family, but he has them.” She made a sound of disgust and turned her face away.

""	Tate	“We’re on our own.” “Exactly.” [MASK] shook her head. “I don’t know whether I should be shedding the constraints of civilization and getting ready to fight for my life or keeping and enhancing them for the sake of our future.”

Ooloi	Leah	Other humans left the settlement. As the days passed, some of their ooloi seemed acutely uncomfortable. They kept to themselves, sat rock still, their head and body tentacles drawn into thick, dark lumps that looked, as [MASK] said, like grotesque tumors.

Gerty	Lilith	Otherwise they might run away with less than they need to live. And we’ll tell them they’re welcome to come back to us. All of them. Any of them. Whenever they like.” [MASK] sighed. “Heaven help anyone who tries.”

""	Lilith	Both did it from memory, without pictures impregnated with prints. Once they read someone’s print or examined someone and took a print, they remembered it, could duplicate it. [MASK] would never be able to read prints or duplicate them. That required Oankali organs of perception.

""	Nikanj	“It isn’t possible,” [MASK] said. “It should be possible! It should be! Why isn’t it?” “Her bonding with her ooloi is too strong, too heavily reinforced—as yours is with your ooloi.

""	Shared	[MASK] was his name. She sang songs to him and he learned them instantly. He sang diem back to her in almost accendess English. He did not understand why she did not do the same when he sang her his songs. She did eventually learn the songs.

""	Leah	“They’ve made personal ties here,” he said to [MASK]. “Think what they had before: War, chaos, family and friends dead. Then solitary. A jail cell and shit to eat. They care very much. So do you.”

Gerty	Lilith	[MASK] liked the man. He had brains and, except for the foolishness with his wives, self-control—exactly what she needed. But she also feared him. What if he decided she was one of his captors?

