Ponyboy	Ben	It was late in the day when we made our descent of the valley wall, taking a narrow rocky path on the donkeys that had been sent up for us. “Heha Waipio i ka noe. You know what that means?” [MASK] asked.

""	Louise	“One ghos’?” 43 “Get away from me, you lousy little hick!” I said, and raced into his house. “Is something wrong?” [MASK] asked me at dinner. “I’m cold,” I said.

Gerty	Kimiko	“Fie’ll come back for his sweetheart, don’t worry!” The cowboys secured the cow to an ohi’a stump, away from the protective trees and giant ferns. [MASK] invaded my thoughts continually with euphoria. I fenced off shame with complacency and felt at peace.

""	Ben	The rod turned into a snake. The frogs! There were so many croaking in the valley’s taro patches. I fell asleep reading. Late that night I awoke, and the heightened croaking of the frogs kept me from going back to sleep. [MASK] had not returned.

""	Fred	One box contained pheasant skins for feather leis, [MASK]’s gift to my father. “There’ll be a delay until the cattle are loaded,” the clerk told me. “The sharks are giving us trouble. They already tore hell outa one of the steers.

""	Ben	I pulled away. Memory of the early morning intimacy at the beach made me tremble. “I want to go back to the house.” “Wait, boy! [MASK] is coming!” I walked on. The donkeys were readied for our departure.

Gerty	Julian	I was anxious to escape the suddenly threatening gloom and rushed to the safety of the out-of-doors. In my confused reaction to [MASK]’s arrival in the parlor and his terse, frightening announcement, I had developed a strong urge to breathe fresh air.

""	Fred	She’d been trained, I think, by the very first English sisters to come here. Am I correct, [MASK]?” “Yes, yes, that’s true. Back in the eighteen-sixties, I think.” I lifted my eyes from feasting on

Gerty	Georgie	I stood frozen in my path, shaking. “What you see?” [MASK] taunted. “One ghos’?” 43 “Get away from me, you lousy little hick!” I said, and raced into his house. “Is something wrong?”

""	Puna	What is the matter with you people in this terrible house? What is happening? How is it to end?” “Aale huhu oe ia‘u, keiki. No get mad wit me, boy, please. I was praying for [MASK] da ‘ole way.

Gerty	Eben	I was keeping them for one of my grandsons, but I think, for certain reasons, they are more appropriately yours. [MASK] agrees with me.” She returned the bright spur to its place in the plush-lined case. Her eyes were moistening.

""	Fred	“He’ll be there before long. Just try and keep him away. . .” “From his lady love!” I interjected. [MASK] gave me a sharp look. “Made leis? Ain’t you guys got something better to do than this?”

""	Moluhi	His Hawaiian use of a negative remark to express affection had [MASK] chuckling. “So you think I’m a worthless hapa-haole,” I said. “What about you, you hapa-pokiki?” He laughed again loudly.

""	Julian	The old man was an older family-edition of [MASK]. “If you will excuse me, my boy, I’ll go see when the men are expected, or if they’re coming home tonight at all!

Gerty	Fred	No Hawaiian would stay away if he had any right to feel welcome. I retired to finish some letters, when [MASK] called out a greeting from his bedroom where he’d spent the morning. He was wrapped like a mummy in his kapa.

""	Fred	“Yeah, I’m one wort ’less half-portagee. ’ ’ We fell silent as [MASK] rode up. “He’ll be there before long. Just try and keep him away. . .” “From his lady love!” I interjected.

Gerty	Fred	We talked most of the time about his impending luau. “I can borrow a big closed tent from the ranch. Their luau is on the Fourth, a week before mine,” [MASK] said, and swept his gaze across the fields.

Ponyboy	kahunas	“You’ll either be a raging success or a nervous wreck before you’re thirty.” I touched the spurs carefully, as though willing them to reveal some coveted secret. I was unnerved. “Everybody talks about [MASK] and their powers.”

""	Laura	Near the stove on a counter there was a tray on which a dozen or so of the elongated donuts sat 136 draining cooking oil into the brown paper spread under them. “Long johns?” I said vacuously. [MASK] gave a slight vehemence to her stirring.

""	Baxter	“My mother was on the side of the reformers.” “A house divided against itself ... It was my father’s phrase when he met opposition from my mother.” [MASK] laughed for the first time. “What a fiasco that whole thing was.

""	Puna	He started giving orders with the implicit threat that he would leave in a minute, if not obeyed. The disease was “in a high degree of contagiom” [MASK] could not be allowed to stay in the same room with others.

""	Ben	“He won’t go anywhere that woman of his is not wanted. She’s very backward, and on top of that, she’s toothless. I’ll send a pu-olu of food up to [MASK].

Gerty	Eben	Their tanned smooth skins were pulled taut; their eyes, very dark and luminous. They bore a likeness to one another but were not identical twins. [MASK] sat his horse with authority, his hands strong and quiet.

Gerty	Fred	By dis time, he saddle da buggah. We go queeck. We come back!” We rode through [MASK]’s paddocks along a narrow glass-clear stream and passed through an opening in the rock-walled enclosures secured by a single log.

Ponyboy	Fred	[MASK] greets them all, his face pale as the midnight sky in the moonlight. “My cousin’s boy,” he says, pointing to me. The callers seem satisfied, some even happy to learn this unim- 184 portant fact.

""	Paniolos	The pit was still smoking, surrounded by the mound of earth excavated in the digging. The smell of cooked flesh and leaves of ti and banana hovered everywhere. [MASK] were strumming their ukuleles, singing or talking. They had 121 abandoned the tent to the gentry, once the feast was over.

Gerty	Fred	[MASK] grips my arm. The tears flow down. The crying is shameless. It is going on everywhere. Those who come into the house shed tears at the first sight of the dead boy. I avoid looking at his still, gray face.

""	Puna	“Less go. I no like stay heah wit doze make man spurs!” I closed the door and tried to ignore [MASK]’s loud squalling as she pulled him down the hall to the breakfast room. I returned the spurs to their slots in the elegant case.

""	Puna	The room smelled faintly of the camphor wood used in the drawers in which table linens had been kept before the handsome dining room had been converted into these sleeping quarters. “I like orange juice! I like orange juice!” [MASK] supplicated.

""	Fred	I was shocked that I had not appreciated the degree of affection between them. The first loud crack from the kitchen porch brought back the pig hunt. It sounded again. Unmistakably, [MASK] was at work with his bull whip!

""	Fred	They were engaged to be married when he met with the fatal accident.” [MASK] gestured with an arm. “Right above us in that rugged open country, too high for trees. He was going after one of the stallions my father had sold them.

Gerty	Fred	[MASK] told of famous old bulls that were tracked down and shot after years of freedom and hell-raising among the new herds of pure-bred Herefords. “They would have made the ones we saw today look like heifers!” he boasted.

Gerty	Puna	. ■ I was working a puzzle to amuse [MASK] in the breakfast room, when we were surprised by a knocking at the front door. Since I had been in the house, no caller had used that entrance.

""	Au‘we	“Bime-by, baby, bime-by!” One of his large hands encompassed the side of the child’s head and pulled it to his breast.“Au’we! [MASK]! Eha loa ka puu wai. Na'u oe keiki aloha! Na‘u oe!

""	Fred	I bent down to help [MASK]. “I’m okay, boy. A little pi-ula. Get me a towel to wipe my nose. Look at all this blood,” he chortled. Then he shrieked: “Why that laho pilau!

""	Fred	They hate your guts if you don’t!” [MASK] was drunk. His face was florid. I summoned courage and rose from my chair. “Don’t hate me, boy, for saying these things! Life is full of dangers.

Gerty	Fred	“My cousin’s boy,” he says, pointing to me. The callers seem satisfied, some even happy to learn this unim- 184 portant fact. I am at [MASK]’s side most of the time, near the white coffin. He is loath to have me leave him.

Dowager	Fred	From my perch near the front door on the verandah, I watched the intrepid dowager and her company crowd themselves into the five or six limousines that had brought them. [MASK] and the others in the paniolo guard of honor hovered close by and fussily assisted the chauffeurs.

Gerty	Mark	“All you people from da ole families are very much alike. You are funny kine—a mixture of kineness an’ indifference—sophistication an’ ignorance. I’d like to see you go to a good Eastern college, [MASK]! You have da makings!”

""	Julian	It is a kuwo cry: the cry of grief as someone arrives from afar, chanting expressions of aloha for the dead. The front doors open wide. It is [MASK]. He is dressed in a black suit, a white shirt and black string tie.

Gerty	Joe	“Or send for the wise one to come here! He can kalana pule, say the needed prayers, on the spot!” she argued. From my bedroom window, we saw [MASK] drive off in the old Packard.

""	Fred	“My God,” [MASK] has said at some point in the proceedings, “all the relatives of all my dead wives have come.” These are mostly Hawaiian families with large broods of children: the girls dressed in white, the boys in blue serge trousers and white shirts and black bow ties.

Gerty	Goats	We crossed the short stretch of field that separated the stable from the stream. The tousled tops of eucalyptus growing near the stream swayed perilously close to the snapping point under the trade wind gusts. [MASK] bleated warnings as we approached the stable. “Brutes!”

Gerty	Sonny	“Yes, I do,” I whispered, and followed him down the ramp. I was shivering, my eyes were watery. “You are frightened, [MASK]. Don’t be afraid. You are safe here.” The old man opened a door.

""	Smatta	“Let ‘im kill himself!” A gush of scarlet and pink spilled out of the great gash. I turned away. I rode away. I began to feel myself losing consciousness. I wanted to cry. ‘“[MASK], boy?”

Akualele	Hawaiians	The “thing” appeared first a small flame and then, as it approached, an orb. I had heard it described so many times by [MASK]: the akualele, the flying god, an evil spirit sent out to find victims.

""	Julian	I was examining the remains of a little red bird with black markings, when [MASK] entered the room. “Ei nei,” he said, using the affectionate form of address. “Da boy . . . He cry foah oranch. Maybe we go get ‘um.

Gerty	Fred	Hell, there’s all kinds of specimens round here just waiting to have a good time who’d be glad to help!” [MASK] fell silent as though questioning the sanity of his plan. Then he spoke again; his eyes, moistened; his voice, calm and affectionate.

Gerty	Ben	[MASK] drove on at the same slow pace. White and yellow ginger, at the height of the blooming season, grew in large, luxuriant clusters along the roadside wherever there was water from irrigation ditches or seepage from the foothills.

Gerty	Zach	Every evening on the dot, at sunset!” “Now, [MASK], don’t exaggerate,” said his mother, sharply. I turned away and walked to the corral, where the cowboys were preparing to take another group of steers into the water.

Gerty	Fred	We came on a wild bull and cow feeding at the edge of a shallow gully, strategically close to the ohi‘a woods. [MASK] said they were the same pair we’d run into the morning before. We rode within fifty yards of the beasts before they sprinted.

""	Puali	Black and white Muscovy ducks and Peking whites abounded in and at the sides of the patches which were unplanted, but watery. [MASK]’s house sat in the middle of a yard surrounded by a red picket fence, towering mango and breadfruit trees, and thick hedges of the tallest green ti I had ever seen.

""	Vancouver	Heah! Look! You see da oranch?” “What big trees they are!” “Ole buggahs, dass why!” “I wonder who planted them.” They could have been survivors of the original seedlings left here by [MASK]’s botanist.

""	tutu	His sobbing continues, but the grief that was lodged in the naau, 187 the guts, is spent. His black-suited form escapes quietly through the front doors—as limp as a shadow. I take the old lady’s bony hand. “Your grandnephew, [MASK]?

Gerty	Puna	People here rot away too I ” soon! The doctor looked at the sky and glanced at his watch. “When your uncle comes home, we’re going over next door to ask your cousins to keep [MASK] for a week or ten days.

Ponyboy	Gomes	[MASK]’ singing had come to a tearful conclusion. Outside, the night was very dark, the stars very 154 brilliant. I could hear the smallest sounds that insects make. The air, clear of fog, moved me to inhale deeply till I trembled.

Ponyboy	Henry	He giggled like a schoolgirl, choked, coughed, sat up. “He’s been absolutely worthless since he developed piles.” He fell back on his pillow, moving his head from side to side. [MASK] came with the decanter and a pitcher of water.

""	Fred	“All my life I live in this country, and this is the second time I been in this house,” were her first 65 words, which, with a toss of the head, a movement of an arm, a look, gently rebuked [MASK] and his isolated way of life.

Ponyboy	Kroa	“Get outa the way, you little bastard!” I stood my ground, convinced that in this madhouse—in this room where [MASK], the Ape Boy, dominated the walls—I was going to meet my end. “Black pig, you!”

Gerty	Moluhi	He rode in zig-zag patterns, keeping just enough ahead of the boar to keep his horse’s hind legs from being gored by the enormous stained tusks. [MASK] followed, cracking his whip to divert the huge pig’s attention, but was handicapped by the sow slung behind his saddle.

""	Fred	Its tusks were mere butts, but its teeth were sharp, biting almost through to the skin of my ankles. “Mount your horse, you stupid boy!” [MASK] screeched in fits of laughter. “Ovah heah!”

Gerty	Ben	The Stetson-shaped lauhala hats of the three men in the front seat were wound with fresh maile vines. After exchanging greetings and news with [MASK], they roared off in low gear, the spicy smell of their leis, gas and oil fumes, dogs, pigs, and human sweat odors trailing behind.

Gerty	Fred	The paniolos joined in, but not so raucously or obviously. Later, [MASK] turned hard on me. “Don’t you ever, not ever, use spurs on that horse again, boy! Do you hear!”

""	Tony	Her eyes lighted up. “Do you think I should keep them?” “Of course! They’re to be treasured! Sometimes the personal belongings of high-ranking people are filled with mana. [MASK]’s spurs would have good mana.” Her expression changed.

Ponyboy	Spirits	[MASK] did not thrive in my world of bright lights, clanging streetcars, and modern plumbing, where scientific education continually refuted the lore which still clung, like coral clusters on reefs, at the outer edges of memory.

""	Gomes	The hard gallop had winded me. In the trees, rocks, and logs, the great ferns unfurled their stiff wide ribbons like tentacles of giant octopi turned upside down. “Bring a gun nex’ time,” [MASK] said.

Gerty	Caron	She kissed my cheek. Her perfume was the same my aunts used: a scent of [MASK]’s. The ponderous limousine pulled slowly away 133 from the stone wall like a great felled tree being dragged off with its roots exposed. I sat for a time on the wall.

Ponyboy	Julian	There are plenty of them. Read the newspapers! More than half the people who get in dutch with the law are Hawaiians. [MASK]’s so stealthy. Take the time he was in your bedroom, lighting the lamp. So cheeky, really! Arrogant!

""	Ben	No one rushes. No one frets. Everybody’s doors are open and there’s plenty to eat. And love, my boy! Love!” [MASK] was beaming. “It’s yours for the asking down here. You know what I mean?”

Ponyboy	Fred	The horse worked to a canter. [MASK] called out more sharply. I was now a hundred or so yards ahead of him and the paniolos. The panic was on me again. My hands and feet were tingling. I dug my heels into the horse’s flanks.

""	Au'we	They will speak to »» you. I loved rocks and trees. I always looked at them with awe. “Do you think rocks have life?” “[MASK],” the old man responded with a gentle chortle. “Of course they do.

""	Puna	“More Goddamned nonsense going on around here than you can shake a stick at! I don’t know what I’ve done to deserve all this!” He reached for his prized decanter and poured a walloping drink. [MASK]’s sobbing continued until he fell asleep an hour or so later.

""	Uncle	They were the only two left from a family of twelve wiped out in the flu of 1920. She was a beautiful girl, much younger than [MASK]!” “When did he start that kahuna stuff?” 46 “Oh you know about that?”

""	poopaakiki	I choked, cleared my throat. “But he’s very unhappy.” “Hawaiians are funny about children.” Her voice was flat, almost without timbre. She broke off. “Sometimes children suffer dreadfully because their elders are [MASK].

""	Mark	Hawaiians intertwine the fates of people from one generation to the next who bear the same name or somehow resemble each other. “I want you to have these spurs, [MASK]. I was keeping them for one of my grandsons, but I think, for certain reasons, they are more appropriately yours.

""	Fred	“Goddamned whore of a pig you were chasing was in heat! No wonder the boar came after you! Well, somebody’s got to kill ‘im now!” [MASK] ordered. “Diz buggah eez mine!”

""	Leihulu	“Put it down!” “Make man spur!” he sang. “[MASK] stay scay-ed of da make man spur!” He threw the spur on the floor. “Both of you get out of my room! I want to write letters.

""	Julian	You come to da dance, too? You not too young?” His smile was dazzling. “It’s good to see you, [MASK].” “How you been? You write me you ride hoss plenny time.” “I have.”

Gerty	Cattle	We crept past a well-fenced place with excellent stands of grazing. A little house sat in a clump of Monterey cypress at the top of a gently rising 165 hillock about a half-mile from the road. [MASK] and a few fat horses fed in the waist-high grass.

Gerty	Fred	My belongings bundled into a lump, I clutched them protectively and hurried into the hall landing. [MASK] was standing at the top, holding a lighted candle. He 42 came down, measuring each step, his eyes red, glistening in the candlelight.

""	Mark	Some of this is too deep for me,” I said, and began to move away. Just before I disappeared around the water tank, he yelled, “Goin’a miss your cooking, [MASK]!” r * .

Gerty	Gomes	There was almost a feminine gentleness in the way the paniolos pursued the making of the maile leis. They would change if the wild bull joined its cow. [MASK] wound a particularly handsome 158 strand around my hat and placed a handful of longer strips over my shoulders.

""	Fred	I asked “I’ve had him doing little things for me.” [MASK]’s eyes fretfully scanned the ceiling again. “Well, what have you been up to all morning?” “First of all, I gave the kids breakfast,” I answered.

""	Julian	The man, his fine horse, and the dogs soon melted into the dim moist banks of morning fog. “We have peace now foah da day,” [MASK] said, his dark eyes glistening, angry. “I hear him talk about me to you, boy!

Ponyboy	Puna	I’m fed up with the old homes cluttered together here.” In one of the little north bedrooms, we found [MASK] curled up asleep, his made and rose leis tangled under his chin, forming a pillow. “What’s this little birthday guy doing up here?”

""	Markie	“Stay, [MASK]! Stay with me!” The house creaks and groans with people. Some have stayed for two days and nights, sleeping as they can in chairs, in corners or in the spare bedrooms. Offerings of food and okolehao flow into the house.

Gerty	Puna	The following day [MASK] kept to the large bed. I tried to feed him a breakfast of soft boiled egg, hardtack, and tea, which he refused. I cursed the fact there was no thermometer in the house, knowing from his flushed cheeks and heated forehead that his fever was high.

Gerty	Fred	I rushed to my room and quickly gathered my things, groping in the semi-darkness rather than taking the time to light the lamp. I was sure it was [MASK]’s heavy boots that clumped on the floor above me.

""	Julian	Soon as I heah da car come, I go, even if I haff to ride all night.” “But, [MASK], you’re the only one I . . .” “You very differen’ from mos’ kids I see, boy.

""	Magdelen	I got a young Frenchman fresh from the Sorbonne to teach them archaeology and the other sciences, and an older man, an Englishman, to drum literature and history into their heads. He’s an Oxford man—[MASK]. My last husband was English, a barrister.

Ka	Moluhi	He used the expression ka hookaulana ana for celebration, one I had not often heard. [MASK] claimed the fat liver, perfect for eating raw, Hawaiian-style. We rode, carrying the gory sections to the main road, men and horses decked with copious garlands of maile.

""	Kamehameha	“He has already been devoured. Their bellies are full. They have gone to loll in their caves under the reef.” We walked slowly to the edge of the lower temple floor. “There was his stone, the stone of [MASK], under those kiawe trees.

Gerty	Joe	I’ll hold the lamp while he gets the sheets.” I sped down the hall. [MASK] led the way. The old stairway squeaked, stripped of its carpeting. “No scay-ah, boy, no scay-ah?”

""	Fred	These Chinamen have gotten rich selling booze!” [MASK]’s eyes gleamed. “It’s against the law.” “Live and let live!” He was grinning, his face as pink as the inside of a seashell.

Gerty	Fred	“These public events are very important to the people here,” [MASK] said. “There’s nothing else to do. Hawaiians are real dudes—the old-fashioned ones, I mean, not the moe-lepos, your louts.”

Ponyboy	Laura	Still soaked through with fear, I ran eagerly to the Punohu house. [MASK] was in the kitchen, stirring something on the wood cookstove. My visit did not seem to surprise her. “I’m making a custard for my long johns,” she said.

""	Fred	I tried the door to the room directly over mine downstairs. It was the only locked room in the house. Perhaps the storeroom [MASK] had mentioned. The furnishings of the bedrooms at the north side of the house were intact, each four-poster stripped and covered with dust sheets.

""	Julian	[MASK] stepped into the open. He beckoned me. I went. “I come las night! Dis morning, I mean!” He was disheveled and bleary-eyed; his tan gabardine trousers, wrinkled; his boots, splotched with mud.

Gerty	Puna	170 Voices of women sounded somewhere and occasionally a dog’s bark. The laughter of unseen children rolled in waves over the evening’s stillness. I said [MASK]’s name out loud. I had promised myself not to dwell on things. I let my eyes wander.

""	Fred	When they reached the breakfast-dining room, she said: “Dish! Plenny dish is what you need for luau!” “We got plenty of them,” [MASK] said. “The china closet’s full!”

