""	Juntaro	And when [MASK] laughed, his grandfather waved a hand to shush him. I’ve often observed that men and women who were young children during these years have a certain seriousness about them; there was too little laughter in their childhoods.

""	Sayuri	Tell me, little novice . . . what is your name?” “[MASK], ma’am,” I said. And my face felt so hot from nervousness that I wouldn’t have been surprised if my makeup had simply melted and begun to drip onto my lap.

""	Nobu	I’d planned to reach into his lap and reclaim it with girlish embarrassment, but I couldn’t bring myself to reach between his legs. [MASK] picked it up himself, and turned it slowly by its spine. “Fetch the young maid who greeted me,” he said.

""	Michizono	“It’s less a matter of looking the other way than of closing our eyes to what we can’t stop from happening.” “Is that so? Well, I learned a few things from my talk with [MASK] that night when I got her drunk.

""	Hatsumomo	And the rat wasn’t a rat at all. It was her boyfriend’s pale hand protruding from his sleeve. “What is it?” I heard her boyfriend’s voice say. “Is someone there?” “It’s nothing,” [MASK] whispered.

""	Mameha	It’s expected she’ll win it a second time as well.” [MASK] was referring to an award for the apprentice who’d earned the most during the previous month. It may seem strange that such an award existed, but there’s a very good reason.

Gerty	Miyagiyama	When [MASK] comes out, we’ll see some real skill.” This, it seemed to me, was my chance to dote on him. “But the wrestling I’ve seen already has been so impressive!” I said.

Gerty	Pumpkin	After this I learned why [MASK] had been so worried about being the last student. Because now the girl with the disheveled hair, who’d been rushing to the school as we’d left for breakfast, came to the front of the room and bowed.

""	Quietly	She put on straw zori and lent me an extra pair. I asked her where we were going. “[MASK]!” she said. “We’re following my daddy. I do it every time he goes out. It’s a secret.”

""	Mameha	“You’ve put a line right in the middle of a red smudge, and it looks like a pair of lips. The Doctor’s going to laugh.” [MASK] agreed and wiped off the makeup after the cook assured her she could find the spot.

""	Mameha	“You may not know this about eels,” [MASK] went on, “but they’re quite territorial. When they find a cave they like, they wriggle around inside it for a while to be sure that . . .

Gerty	Mameha	[MASK] and I spent the next hour in the servants’ quarters, eating a lovely dinner that included tai no usugiri—paper-thin slices of sea bream, fanned out on a leaf-shaped ceramic plate and served with yonzu sauce.

Gerty	Satsu	I know it sounds foolish of me—and indeed it was. But I was only a confused little girl. After we’d finished our dinner and my father had gone to the village to watch the other fishermen play Japanese chess, [MASK] and I cleaned the kitchen in silence.

Gerty	Hatsumomo	The radiant smile she’d worn now faded, just as the darkness fades from a valley when the sun rises on it. In that moment, while [MASK] sat stunned, I simply reached down to the table with my other hand and took the journal away.

Ponyboy	Mameha	“Never mind, then,” the director said, and sat back down. I have to say, I was very relieved he’d given up; because although all the others seemed to be enjoying themselves enormously, I felt embarrassed. “Where was I?” [MASK] said.

""	Pumpkin	I mean, she’ll squash me if you don’t help me to scurry away!” [MASK] thought this was funny, and we both began to laugh. While she was stuck between laughing and crying, I took her handkerchief and tried to smooth the makeup on her face.

Ponyboy	Nobu	Nowadays many people seem to believe their lives are entirely a matter of choice; but in my day we viewed ourselves as pieces of clay that forever show the fingerprints of everyone who has touched them. [MASK]’s touch had made a deeper impression on me than most.

Gerty	Hatsumomo	By the time I returned to the courtyard, [MASK] had been up to her room to fetch an inkstone and a stick of ink, as well as a brush for calligraphy. I thought perhaps she wanted to write a note and slip it inside the kimono when she refolded it.

Gerty	Auntie	Long before [MASK] had finished reading this letter, the tears had begun to flow out of me just like water from a pot that boils over. For it would have been bad enough to learn that my mother had died, or that my father had died.

Gerty	Pumpkin	“But [MASK],” I interrupted, “couldn’t you just have refused to help me? Why did you have to bring the Chairman?” She stood up to her full height. “I know perfectly well how you feel about him,” she said.

""	Nobu	Yet I’ve never known anyone who believes more strongly in destiny than you do.” “Every man has his destiny. But who needs to go to a fortuneteller to find it? Do I go to a chef to find out if I’m hungry?” [MASK] said.

""	Mameha	“Here’s the part that’s going to seem very strange to you,” [MASK] went on, as if what she’d already told me didn’t. “Men actually like doing this. In fact, they like it very much.

""	Mameha	Every day this past month, we’ve hoped to hear something from you ...” “Who are you to complain about being kept waiting? I’ve been outside this theater nearly an hour.” “Have you just come from seeing the dances again?” [MASK] said.

""	Mameha	Do you understand?” If [MASK] had simply told me what she was trying to say, I’m sure I would have been shocked, but at least I’d have had an easier time sorting it all out.

""	Juntaro	My little ruse must have worked, because [MASK] seemed to have no idea that anything was the matter. Adversity is like a strong wind. I don’t mean just that it holds us back from places we might otherwise go.

Chairman	Nobu	The men were onboard already, sitting in seats at the rear and talking business. In addition to the Chairman and [MASK], the Minister was there, as well as an elderly man who, as I later learned, was regional director of the Mitsubishi Bank.

""	Kazuyo	Isn’t that so?” He took in a deep breath, but ended up saying nothing. “Minister, if I may,” I said, “I’d like to tell you a story about a geisha named [MASK].

""	Mameha	I didn’t envy them the uncertainty of their existence; but I did envy that sense of promise I could well remember, that the evening ahead might yet hold some mischievous pleasure. I did see [MASK] frequently. We had tea together at least several times a week.

Gerty	Pumpkin	It must have been a tough piece of squid; [MASK] chewed it the whole way up the gentle hill to the wooden gate of the school complex. I felt a knot in my stomach when I entered, because the garden seemed so grand to me.

""	Mameha	“I thought some big shot was going to be here tonight.” “Maybe you were thinking of the Chairman,” [MASK] said. “Don’t you think he’s a ‘big shot’?” “He knows whether he’s a big shot.

""	Nobu	“I’m sure he rushed right through,” the Doctor said. “A man like [MASK] has a poor sensibility for appreciating the items in these cases.” I didn’t know what to say to this, but the Doctor looked at me pointedly.

Gerty	natsumomo	chapter fifteen [MASK] smiled when she was happy, like everybody else; and she was never happier than when she was about to make someone suffer. This is why she wore such a beautiful smile on her face when she said: “Oh, my goodness!

""	Uchida	She was gazing directly into the bright light of the sunrise, and her eyes were a startling blue-gray. I had to put a hand on the railing to steady myself. I was the girl [MASK] had drawn there on that bridge!

""	Sayuri	“The sooner she sees the world as it really is, the better. Plenty of men act as if they don’t chase women just for the chance to get underneath all those robes, but you listen to me, [MASK]; there’s only one kind of man!

""	Hatsumomo	“You’re going to tell me you’re the girl who put ink on it.” “Well . . . yes, ma’am. And even though I’m sure you know [MASK] was behind it, I do hope that someday I’ll be able to show how sorry I am for what happened.”

Ponyboy	Sayuri	Actually the Governor had lost most of the rounds, as I learned, but held his sake better than the Chairman. “I’m so glad you’re here, [MASK],” he said to me. “You’ve got to help me.

Gerty	Pumpkin	The singing class later in the morning was more difficult for her since she had a poor ear; but there again, the students practiced in unison, so [MASK] was able to hide her mistakes by moving her mouth a great deal while singing only softly.

Ponyboy	Hatsumomo	Even when [MASK] had been doing nothing more than sleeping in her room, the maids had known she was there, and that during the course of the day she would abuse them. They’d lived with the kind of tension you feel if you walk across a frozen pond whose ice might break at any moment.

Gerty	Mameha	He talked with [MASK] for a while, and soon asked her to put on a dance. I don’t think he cared about the dance, really; it was just a way to end the drinking games and encourage his guests to begin paying attention to him again.

Gerty	Minister	It seemed to me my chance had come. “If you’re eating out of boredom, [MASK],” I said, “why don’t you and I explore the inn? I’ve been eager to see it, and we haven’t had the time.”

""	Konda	“You’re going to give me a bad name. I wasn’t being prim. [MASK]-san was always staring at me like he couldn’t wait for the next costume change, so I had a screen brought in.

""	Chiyo	“Now, [MASK], stumbling along in life is a poor way to proceed. You must learn how to find the time and place for things. A mouse who wishes to fool the cat doesn’t simply scamper out of its hole when it feels the slightest urge.

Gerty	Mameha	One time when I happened to be watching her, [MASK] knelt beside a very young man who couldn’t have been more than nineteen or twenty; he probably wouldn’t have been at a geisha party at all if his father hadn’t been the host.

""	Korin	I waited, but nothing happened. “Louder,” said [MASK]. “They aren’t expecting you.” So I called again, “Excuse me!” “Just a moment!” I heard a muffled voice say; and soon the door rolled open.

""	Sayuri	“I had no idea you felt that way. I’ve been under the impression you were fond of [MASK].” “Very well. Now that everything is clear, I’ll go back to the party.” “But may I ask?

""	Gion	About a week after my return, I was finally ready to make my first appearance as a geisha again. I spent a day rushing from the hairdresser’s to the fortune-teller’s; soaking my hands to remove the last of the stains; and searching all over [MASK] to find the makeup I needed.

Gerty	Granny	The older one, the one we call [MASK], has never liked anyone in her life, so don’t worry about what she says. If she asks you a question, don’t even answer it, for heaven’s sake! I’ll answer for you.

""	Hatsumomo	“Such unusual eyes!” said one of the geisha. “You know what I heard a man say about her eyes the other day?” [MASK] said. “He told me they were the color of smashed worms.” “Smashed worms . . .

""	Pumpkin	Until the age of sixteen, an apprentice geisha bills one-half ohana per hour. If [MASK] stayed at a party only five minutes, the host was billed the same as if she’d stayed a full hour.

""	Nobu	I apologize, Chairman. I’ll call someone over to have the announcer correct his mistake.” “There’s no mistake, [MASK]. Considering the great debt I owe you, it’s the least I can do."

Gerty	Yoko	But the telephone hadn’t been ringing much tonight, and I thought probably [MASK] had fallen asleep just as I had. The man didn’t wait for me to answer, but gestured for me to keep quiet, and showed himself down the dirt corridor to the maids’ room.

Gerty	Chairman	But I haven’t come here to ask for your apology. Sit quietly a moment. I want to tell you about something that happened quite a number of years ago.” “[MASK], I feel so confused,” I managed to say.

""	Mameha	[MASK] stopped to watch me as I stood there still as a tree and with my eyes the size of rice crackers. I didn’t cry out or clap my hands, but I was so delighted I couldn’t speak.

Gerty	Sayuri	“[MASK]-san, you may not realize it, but one of the things that goes on between a geisha and her danna can cause the geisha to become pregnant, do you understand? And a man will become very upset if his mistress gives birth to another man’s child.

""	Pumpkin	I asked. “I may as well tell you, because you’ll only hear it from someone else,” she said. “Your little friend [MASK] has just won the apprentice’s award. It’s expected she’ll win it a second time as well.”

Gerty	Tatsumi	Under other circumstances I might have gone searching for her, but I couldn’t possibly disturb her in such a private moment; and besides, she might not have wanted me to know even that she’d gone there. Instead I sat in her apartment and permitted [MASK] to serve me tea while I waited.

""	Arashino	“What I’m saying is, I think it’s time for us to hear from [MASK] exactly what sort of work he’s been up to lately.” “Oh, yes, I’m certainly interested too,” the Baron said.

""	Yasuda	[MASK] admired it for a moment before putting it into his shirt pocket. I had the feeling no words we spoke could be as eloquent as this simple interaction, so I bowed to him and went on to the next man.

""	Mameha	I bowed and begged his favor, and thought perhaps he would say something to me. But he seemed to be looking around the apartment, hardly taking notice of me at all. “[MASK],” he said, “what happened to that scroll you used to have in the alcove?

Ponyboy	Nobu	Truthfully, my entire future is in your hands. Just make sure it’s no one but you and [MASK]—not the Chairman, for heaven’s sake, or anyone else. I’ll repay you in any way you’d like.”

""	Nobu	Your wife will be grateful.” “I’m not married,” said the Minister. But already he was pulling up his socks and getting ready to stand. I led [MASK] and the Minister up the hallway to the entrance, and helped the Minister into his shoes.

""	Hatsumomo	“Oh, Chiyo-chan,” she said to me—I think she was the only person who still called me that—“I don’t have any time! I’m trying to find noodles for [MASK], and she’s going to make me eat some too.

Baron	Arashino	But [MASK] didn’t have a chance to answer; because the Baron, who was taking a last slurp of sake, nearly choked in his hurry to interrupt. “Mmm . . . just a minute,” he said.

""	Mameha	The young woman led me to a table by an open window, where I knelt on one of the cushions and tried not to look nervous. Very shortly another maid came out with a cup of tea for me—because as it turned out, [MASK] had not one maid, but two.

Gerty	Sayuri	She grew so impatient that she finally grabbed my head with both hands and made it clear she wanted me to keep it still. “I hope I never see you acting this way again, [MASK]. Heaven knows what’s come over you.”

""	Nobu	As it turned out, this gave me a chance to listen to [MASK] struggle to be pleasant. “Isn’t this quite a room, Minister?” he said. I heard a little grunt in reply. “I requested it especially for you.

""	Hatsumomo	And as I learned much later, the most expensive ones were in storage somewhere else. They were worn only by apprentice geisha; and since [MASK] could no longer wear them, they were kept in a rented vault for safekeeping until they were needed again.

""	Hatsumomo	I’m afraid you won’t be happy when you hear what it is.” “It doesn’t matter,” she said. “Nothing makes me happy anymore.” “You were in the room earlier this evening when [MASK] talked with the Doctor.

""	Uchida	“Mameha-san, look,” I said to her, but she thought I was talking about the sunset and turned toward it with indifference. [MASK] was standing frozen in the entryway with an expression of concentration on his face, combing one hand through a tuft of his gray hair.

Doctor	Sayuri	He’d written my name wrong, with a different character for the “ri” of [MASK]. But inside the vial was a shriveled-looking thing I thought resembled a pickled plum, though it was brownish rather than purple. The Doctor removed the cork and used tweezers to take it out.

Crab	Mameha	He even led with one shoulder when he walked, just like a crab moving along sideways. He had a mustache on his face, and was very pleased to see [MASK], though more with an expression of surprise in his eyes than with a smile.

""	Hatsumomo	“I have to give it back to him. And . . . oh, it will be the end of my life if I do. Please stop me . . .” “Drunk, and sobbing. You’re worse than [MASK]!

Ponyboy	Mameha	[MASK] said. “Don’t you have a maid to tidy up for you?” The man at the top stood in full sunlight, so that when he turned to peer down at us, I doubt he saw anything more than a few shapes under the trees.

Gerty	Pumpkin	In the dance class, for example, the students practiced the moves in unison, with the result that no one stood out. [MASK] wasn’t by any means the worst dancer, and even had a certain awkward grace in the way she moved.

""	Tatsumi	“In fact, the underrobe is torn as well, in just the same place.” I’d already put on the cream-colored underrobe, and when I reached back and felt in the area of my thigh, I saw that [MASK] was right.

Gerty	Granny	The police said that when [MASK] touched it that morning she must have been immobilized at once, maybe even killed instantly. When she slid down onto the floor, she ended up with her face pressed against the hot metal surface. This was what caused the horrible smell.

""	Mameha	When it comes to these sumo wrestlers, I can’t tell one of them from the next.” [MASK] leaned across in front of the Chairman and whispered to me, “What the Chairman is really saying is that he doesn’t particularly like sumo.”

Ponyboy	Satsu	My father didn’t answer, but blinked a few times, staring at the point where [MASK] had been. Then he turned his eyes heavily toward the floor and gave a nod. I heard my mother cry out in her sleep from the back room.

""	Mameha	I could see that [MASK] was looking right at him, and then she said: “Make him drop the tray.” Before I could make up my mind whether she was joking, she turned up a side street and was gone.

""	Hatsumomo	“I had no idea!” “You mean, what [MASK] was going to say? But how could anyone have known?” “That isn’t it. I didn’t know anyone could be so evil! I don’t understand it. . .

Gerty	Sayuri	I picked at it, feeling strangely unsettled and not at all like celebrating. The mistress of the teahouse asked me a question, and when I heard her call me “[MASK],” I realized what was bothering me.

""	Satsu	He was still staring at [MASK] as if he had never seen anything like her before. Finally he squeezed his face into a look of disgust and said: “Fish! What a stench, the both of you!”

Ponyboy	Mameha	I’d be lying if I said I wanted to obey her; but of course, I had no choice. So I lay down on a sheet spread out on the wooden floor and closed my eyes while [MASK] pulled my robe up until I was exposed almost to the hip.

Gerty	Pumpkin	[MASK]’s bosoms, which were fairly large, kept floating up and exposing themselves on the surface while she jabbered away as always without noticing. Perhaps it seems odd to you that we all bathed together, men and women, and that we planned to sleep in the same room later that night.

""	Nobu	It would be like going to the doctor for a shot. I’d look the other way for a time, and it would be over. But could I do such a thing to [MASK]? What a horrible way to repay his kindness.

""	Nobu	But the Doctor is interested in something else, and so is [MASK]. Do you know what is meant by ‘the homeless eel’?” I had no idea what she was talking about, and I said so. “Men have a kind of . . .

""	Sayuri	“Remember, [MASK],” she nearly hissed, “we want the Doctor to see you looking as innocent and as helpless as possible. Lie back and try to look weak.” I had no difficulty at all with this.

""	Pumpkin	“When you go back to your okiya, take them with you, and no one will wonder where you’ve been. Now, tell me something. When I came to your okiya to pay my respects, I saw another girl your age.” “That must have been [MASK].

Gerty	Mameha	But men do. It’s located—” “I think I know what you’re talking about,” I said, “but I didn’t know it was called an eel.” “It isn’t an eel, really,” [MASK] said.

""	Mameha	“Why couldn’t you just give him a little glimpse now and then,” the director interrupted. “How can it hurt you to be nice?” “I’ve never thought of it that way,” [MASK] said.

Gerty	Mameha	So I put on my most enthusiastic voice and said: “I’m surprised at how attractive the paw prints are! I think the cat may be something of an artist.” “I know why you don’t like him,” said [MASK].

""	Mameha	I was beginning to wonder if his next comment would be something like, “What an ugly younger sister you’ve taken on, [MASK]!” or some such thing. But to my relief, he said: “Here’s a case where the name and the girl go together.

""	Auntie	“I haven’t done anything, [MASK], I promise you.” “You must never trust her, not even if she tries to help you. Already she’s burdened you with so much debt you may never work it off.” “I don’t understand ...”

Gerty	Chiyo	I felt certain I was in trouble. But when she gestured for me to step down into the entryway, I slipped my feet into my shoes and followed her out to the street. “Are you sent on errands from time to time, [MASK]?”

Gerty	Afterward	“My goodness!” he said. “Whatever you two are talking about over there, it certainly sounds more interesting than what we’ve been saying!” The men laughed when they heard this. [MASK] the Doctor was kind enough to offer an explanation.

Ponyboy	Auntie	For the moment, [MASK] left the box there on the floor, with the tablets lined up so neatly inside, and took the letter from the envelope to read it. I stood for what seemed a long while, full of my fears, and not daring even to think.

""	Nobu	He’s had too little kindness.” In all my years as a geisha, I’d never been able to convince myself even for a moment that the Chairman felt any special regard for me. And now to know that he’d intended me for [MASK] . . .

Okiya	Granny	You’ll learn to behave or get a beating. And it’s [MASK] gives the beatings around here, so you’ll be sorry. My advice to you is: work very hard, and never leave the okiya without permission.

Gerty	Nobu	On the return trip I walked beside [MASK], who was still as cheerful as I’d ever seen him. Afterward we toured the island in the back of a military truck fitted with benches, and saw bananas and pineapples growing on the trees, and beautiful birds.

""	Nobu	The piece of concrete from the factory. Go and bring it.” I felt my skin turn to ice when I heard this—because I knew perfectly well what he was saying. The time had come for [MASK] to propose himself as my danna.

