""	Huff	That’s the awful part. Just one of those children was mixed up with property.” “How about the other two?” “Nothing. Those two children died just to cover the trail up a little. Think of that, [MASK].

Gerty	Lola	I didn’t get any peace. The only thing I could think of was [MASK], and how she was going to find out about it at last, and knew me for what I was. About three o’clock the orderly came in with the afternoon papers.

""	Phyllis	They’ll find the policy, and you hand it to your lawyer. Instruct him to put your claim in. Everything waits until you do that.” “Put the claim in.” “That’s right. Now wait a minute, [MASK].

Gerty	Keyes	By four o’clock, the memos and telegrams were piled on [MASK]’ desk so he had to put a weight on top of them to keep them from falling over, and he was mopping his brow and so peevish nobody could talk to him.

Ponyboy	Lola	Nothing even a little bit like it. In the first place, if you’ve already put on an act, they’ll smell something, and believe me [MASK] will be hard to talk down, later. In the second place, we need the car.”

""	Keyes	“Well, [MASK], we’re no worse off.” “You’re no better off.” “Anyway, we haven’t done anything foolish.” “What now?” “Now? I follow practice. I wait her out.

""	Phyllis	She lived a half hour.” “Yes?” “Do you know who that best friend was?” I knew. I knew by the same old prickle that was going up my back and into my hair. “No.” “[MASK].”

""	Nettie	“We are. We checked it all up, with [MASK], with the finance company records, with the records in the policy department. He was in there, and the girl was in there, and that’s what we’ve been waiting for.

Gerty	Lola	All during that month, three or four nights a week, I was seeing [MASK]. I would call for her, at the little apartment house where she was living, and we would go to dinner, and then for a drive.

""	Sachetti	As soon as I jumped I was going to dive into the bridle path, race on down to my car, and drive home. From where I was going to park [MASK]’s car to where I was going to run her over the edge was about two miles, by road.

""	Keyes	“Yes sir.” “Have you told anybody about this?” “Nobody but [MASK].” “Nobody else?” “Not a soul.... God, no.” “There have been no policemen here?” “They’ve been here.

""	Keyes	But I can’t just make her a present of the money.” “That’s what you’ll be doing, if you allege suicide.” “We’ll see.” “Yeah, we’ll see.” I walked back with [MASK] to his office.

Gerty	Sachetti	My next day at the finance company, I put through a lot of routine stuff, sent the file clerk out on an errand, and took out the folder on [MASK]. I slipped it in my desk. In that folder was a key to his car.

""	Nirdlinger	It was part of the play that I had to make two or three calls on [MASK] in his office. The first time, I gave him the bail-bond guarantee, stuck around about five minutes, told him to put it in his car, and left.

""	Keyes	“Well, [MASK], what are you going to do?” “... All right, he wants to wait her out, make her sue,—that suits me. He’s going to cover the dead man, find out what he can about why he maybe committed suicide.

""	Death	I think of myself as [MASK], sometimes. In a scarlet shroud, floating through the night. I’m so beautiful, then. And sad. And hungry to make the whole world happy, by taking them out where I am, into the night, away from all trouble, all unhappiness....

Gerty	Lola	Before night, with luck.” I closed my eyes. I couldn’t think of anything but [MASK], a lot of cops around her, maybe beating her up, trying to make her spill something that she knew no more about than the man in the moon.

""	Lola	All he had to do was keep his mouth shut to the secretary and he could put his $20 profit in his pocket, and nobody would be the wiser. He kept his mouth shut. He didn’t even tell [MASK].

Gerty	Keyes	I’ll be back after a while.” “[MASK], if you let them beat her. I’ll—kill you. You’ve got it all now. I’ve told you, and I’ve told you for one reason and one reason only. It’s

""	Sachetti	Him, her, and the wife.” “What did she say?” “Nothing.... I didn’t tell her, you see. I let her do the talking. She thinks [MASK] shot you.” “For what?” “Jealousy.”

""	Keyes	That was the worst. It was almost noon before [MASK] came back. He saw the paper. He pulled up a chair near the bed. “I’ve been down to the office.” “Yeah?” “It’s been a wild morning.

Gerty	Phyllis	But he had to brag to somebody how smart he was, so he told [MASK]. Another thing that worried me was myself. I was afraid my work would fall off, and they’d begin talking about me in the office, wondering why I’d begun to slip.

Gerty	Keyes	If we discover information, we can turn it over to them. If we have our suspicions, we can communicate them to them. We can take any lawful, legitimate step—but as for this—” He stopped. [MASK] waited, and he didn’t finish.

""	Death	“Not from where he sits, I don’t think.” “I know it’s not true. I tell myself it’s not true. But there’s something in me, I don’t know what. Maybe I’m crazy. But there’s something in me that loves [MASK].

Gerty	Phyllis	But that wasn’t it. [MASK] got the low-down on it, and it startled me, how pretty it broke for us. He charged his car insurance to his company, under expenses, and his secretary had already entered it when I came along with my proposition.

""	Huff	He thinks she found out some way to do it with the serum, combining with another drug. He wishes he could get it out of her. He thinks it would be important.” “Well?” “You’re sunk, [MASK].”

Gerty	Phyllis	Don’t tell your lawyer that now, he’ll find it out for himself later. He’ll want to sue, and you let him. We’ll have to pay him, but it’s our only chance. Now [MASK], one other thing.”

Gerty	Keyes	I’ve got to have your solemn word on that, or you’ll get no statement, and the case will come to trial, and all the rest of it. I’ll blow the whole ship out of water. Do you get that, [MASK]?

""	June	“When?” “[MASK]. In about six weeks.” “That’s it. That’s what we’ve been waiting for.” “But he wants to drive. He wants to take the car, and he wants me to go with him.

""	Norton	“What else?” “Your finance company called up.” “Yeah?” “They popped out with what we’d have known in the first place, I mean me and [MASK], if we had taken you into our confidence completely from the beginning.

Gerty	Sachetti	So he’ll have no suspicions whatever.” The reason for that was that if [MASK] was going to be with her the next night, I wanted him to be well out of there and home in bed, long before I was to meet her.

""	Walter	I put my arm around her and patted her. It seemed funny, after what we had been talking about, that I was treating her like some child that had lost a penny. “Please, [MASK], don’t let me do this. We can’t.

Ponyboy	Huff	He did some more of his pounding around then. The night light over my head was the only light in the room. I could only half see him, but I could feel the bed shake when he marched. “[MASK], there’s a story.”

Gerty	Phyllis	As soon as I had the applications, I switched to accident insurance. He didn’t seem much interested, so I made it pretty stiff. [MASK] cut in that the very idea of accident insurance made her shiver, and I kept on going.

""	Sachetti	What about her?” “We hold [MASK]. He’s consented to it.” “Did you hear me? What about her?” “She’s out.” “She’s—what?” “We bailed her out. It’s a bailable offense.

""	Walter	“Confirm by phone. Remember, you need a witness.” “I’ll have one.” “Tomorrow, then. Subject to call.” “[MASK]—I’m so excited. It does terrible things to me.” “I too.”

Ponyboy	Norton	[MASK] is president of the company. He’s a short, stocky man about 35, that got the job when his father died and he’s so busy trying to act like his father he doesn’t seem to have time for much else.

Gerty	Keyes	But there’s still considerable evidence of suicide—” “Not a scrap.” “Enough, [MASK], that I owe it to my stockholders to throw the thing into court, and let a jury decide. I may be wrong. The police may be wrong.

""	Norton	I had the whip hand. There was no two ways about it. I called it long ago, even when [MASK] was still talking suicide.” “You did that all right.” “I persuaded them the case ought never to come to trial.”

""	Nino	She looked at me very solemnly. “It’s different with [MASK]. He isn’t working, but he doesn’t want this loan just to have money to spend. You see, he’s done all his work for his Sc. D., and-”

""	Phyllis	When I met [MASK] I met my plant. If that seems funny to you, that I would kill a man just to pick up a stack of chips, it might not seem so funny if you were back of that wheel, instead of out front.

""	Sachetti	“She’s upset about you. But when she found out you weren’t badly hurt, she—. Well, she—” “_Was glad of it.” “In a way. She tried not to be. But she felt that it proved [MASK] loved her.

Gerty	Phyllis	A woman feature writer had got in out there and talked with [MASK]. It was she that called it the House of Death, and put in about those blood-red drapes. Once I saw that stuff I knew it wouldn’t be long.

""	Phyllis	I’ll force it out of her if I have to go up there and choke it out of her. I’ll make her tell! I’ll not be stopped!” I don’t know when I decided to kill [MASK].

""	Walter	“Yes.” “One or two witnesses there, and several people later, to us, intimated that your father might have—killed himself. Is that what you mean?” “No, [MASK], it isn’t.” “Then what?”

Gerty	Holy	Suppose we sweat her and get nothing. Sup- pose it is on the up-and-up. Look where that puts us. [MASK] smoke, she could murder us in a civil suit, and a jury would give her every nickel she asks for.

""	Nettie	I had to do something to get myself in hand. I called home, and asked the Filipino if there had been any calls. He said no. Then I buzzed [MASK] to send her in. She looked different from the last time I had seen her.

""	Lola	‘ ‘ Thanks—[MASK]. ” The accident policy came through a couple of days later. That meant I had to get his check for it, and get it right away, so the dates would correspond. You understand, I wasn’t going to deliver the accident policy, to him.

""	Walter	“That’s right. Close your garage door when you come out, so anybody passing won’t notice the car’s out.” “I’ll be there, [MASK].” “Oh, and one other thing. I traded my car in since I saw you.

""	Walter	That’s a sound that always catches your ear, a car door closing. I crouched down there in the dark. He had his bag and his briefcase on the seat. “Did I do it all right, [MASK]?” “O.K. so far.

""	Phyllis	“I’ve got it.” “Before you get on that boat, you’ll have to hand to me the registry receipt for that statement. I’ve got to know I’ve got it.” “What about her?” “Who?” “[MASK]?”

""	Keyes	“Why not?” “[MASK], we’ve been over that a million times, every insurance company has been over it a million times. We have our practice, and you can’t beat it. These things are a matter for the police.

Ponyboy	Phyllis	And then it’s one of those things where you’ve got to watch for your chance, and you can’t plan it in advance, and know where you’re going to come out to the last decimal point. Get this, [MASK].

""	Walter	That, I can’t make myself believe. And yet—never mind. Forgive me, [MASK], for coming in here like this. But I’m so unhappy.” “Have you said anything to anybody about this?” “No, nothing.”

""	Keyes	Didn’t I tell him to have her put under arrest, without waiting for this inquest? Didn’t I tell him—” “What do you mean, [MASK]?” My heart was pounding, plenty. “He was never on the train!”

""	Lola	He gets trainsick.” “Can you put on an act?” “I did. I put on all the act I dare put, and still he won’t budge. I put on such an act that [MASK] is hardly speaking to me any more.

""	Widow	[MASK] remained at home until June 8, when she took automobile ride, stopped at drug store, made phone call, took ride two succeeding days, stopped markets and store selling women’s gowns. Night of June 11, man caller arrived at house 8:35, left 11:48.

""	Keyes	Then, little by little I’ll feel his icy fingers creeping into my heart. .. I’ll give you away.” “What?” “I mean: I’ll go with you.” [MASK] was right. I had nothing to thank him for.

Gerty	Ike	“[MASK], do me a favor, will you? I’m trying to figure out a proposition on a public liability bond for a wine company to have it ready for them tomorrow morning, and I’m going nuts. I came off without my rate book.

Ponyboy	Walter	And hungry to make the whole world happy, by taking them out where I am, into the night, away from all trouble, all unhappiness.... [MASK], this is the awful part. I know this is terrible. I tell myself it’s terrible.

""	Phyllis	I had to find out what she had been figuring on, and whether she had gummed it up with some bad move of her own. “Have you said anything to him about this, [MASK]? About this policy?” “No.” “Absolutely nothing?”

""	Keyes	“Well, I’ve been talking to the police about this. I told them we suspect murder. They said they did too, at first, but they’ve given up that idea. They’ve gone into it. They’ve got their books too, [MASK].

""	Nirdlinger	“That’s right. He got a loan. But that’s not it. That’s not the important thing. He was in your office the day you delivered that policy to [MASK].” “I couldn’t be certain.” “We are.

""	Keyes	I saw them out in the hall. I guess it was me they were whispering about. The nurse wouldn’t let them in.” They all looked at each other. “Then I guess we can begin. [MASK], perhaps you had better explain it to him.”

""	Belle	You bring—” “I bring a minister, I know that, I bring a minister to take charge of the body, how many times have I got to listen to that—are you going to let me drive?” “O.K., then. Drive.” “Is [MASK] home?”

""	Huff	She’s a pathological case, that’s all. The worst I ever heard of.” “A what?” “They’ve got a name for it. You ought to read more of this modern psychology, [MASK]. I do.

Gerty	Walter	Forever.” That meant she had spent the whole day sweating blood for fear I would warn the husband, or start something, somehow. I kept on with it. “You called me [MASK]. What’s your name?”

""	Walter	“Because they’re true. That’s what you’re going to do.” “Now? After what you’ve said?” “Yes, after what I’ve said.” “But—[MASK], that’s what I’ve come for, again tonight.

""	Belle	I wasn’t the only one that knew about that shape. She knew about it herself, plenty. We went in the living room, and a tray was on the table. “[MASK] is off today, and I’m making myself some tea.

""	Lola	“You can call me [MASK], if you want to.” “Thanks, I’ll be glad to help any time I can.” “This is secret, too.” “Yes, I know.”

Gerty	Walter	They were there about an hour. They talked about lots of things, and I could tell, from what they said, that he wasn’t in on it, and didn’t know anything about it. I could tell! [MASK], do you realize what that means?

""	Lola	I thought she would have some friend of the family in to dinner, maybe a woman, and just let her stay with us, there in the sitting room, after I showed up around seven-thirty. She didn’t. She brought the stepdaughter in, a pretty girl, named [MASK].

""	Huff	“He’ll see. I’ve handled too many cases, [MASK]. When you’ve handled a million of them, you know, and you don’t even know how you know. This is murder.... So they covered the porter, did they.

""	Lola	I’ll tell them what to ask her. I’ll tell them—” “Wait a minute, [MASK], wait a minute—” “I’ll tell them everything they need to know. I told you there was plenty more, besides what I told you.

""	Huff	“Well, [MASK], he’s showed.” “Who?” “The guy in the Nirdlinger case.” “What?” “He’s a steady caller now. Five nights in one week.” .. Who is he?” “Never mind.

""	Norton	I just wanted you to know it. I’m sending a memo to [MASK] about it. I think the whole thing is something the president of this company might very well look into. Though if you ask me, if the president of this company had more ...”

He	Norton	He was so fat he really suffered in the heat. He lit a cigarette. He drooped down and looked away from [MASK] like it was some schoolboy and he didn’t want to show his disgust. Then he spoke. “It was not suicide.”

""	Lola	“But wait a minute. What did your mother say to the doctor when he—” “Nothing. She was in high delirium, and besides he had her in oxygen five minutes after he got there.” “But wait a minute, [MASK].

""	Lola	“What!” “I don’t even know how he did it, yet. He was holding a dog or something, a neighbor’s dog that was chasing a rabbit, and slipped and fell down. He’s in the hospital now. [MASK]’s with him.

Gerty	Keyes	[MASK] denied liability, on the ground that accident hadn’t been proved. Then she filed suit, through the regular lawyer that had always handled her husband’s business. She called me about half a dozen times, always from a drugstore, and I told her what to do.

""	Keyes	“On nothing.” “But [MASK], we can’t do a thing like that. Suppose we don’t find out anything. Suppose we sweat her and get nothing. Sup- pose it is on the up-and-up. Look where that puts us.

""	Phyllis	I had to wait till she called. I sat around the house three nights, and the fourth night the phone rang. “[MASK], I’ve got to see you.” “It’s about time.” “You know the reason I haven’t.

""	Lola	So instead of going to bed, he decided to go up to her house and keep an eye on her. He went out to get his car. When he found it gone, he almost fainted, because [MASK] had a key to it.

""	Lola	“And I was to call you [MASK].” “It’s funny how easy I feel with you.” “Go ahead.” “It’s about my father.” “Yes?” “My father’s death.

""	Huff	Thanks.” “Don’t thank me.” “I feel that way.” “You’ve got no reason to thank me.” A funny look came in his eyes. “I don’t think they’re going to catch up with you, [MASK].

""	Phyllis	“What do you mean, [MASK]?” “For me to meet my bridegroom. The only one I ever loved. One night I’ll drop off the stern of the ship. Then, little by little I’ll feel his icy fingers creeping into my heart.

Gerty	Walter	“She’s suing your company, isn’t she? She even has the nerve to do that. All right. You tell your company not to worry. I’ll come and sit right alongside of you, [MASK]. I’ll tell them what to ask her.

""	Nino	“I’m terribly sorry.” “I’m all right.” “I didn’t know [MASK] knew about us. He must have found out. He didn’t mean anything. But he’s—hot-tempered.” “You love him?”

""	Walter	A dead man is about the hardest thing to handle there is, but I figured with this harness we could do it, and do it quick. “We’re there, [MASK]. Shall I park now or drive around the block?” “Park now.

Gerty	Nirdlinger	I told him how I propositioned [MASK] about the accident policy, and how his wife and daughter opposed it, and how I dropped it that night but went over to his office a couple of days later to give him another whirl. That would check with what the secretary saw.

""	Phyllis	It’s very easy when you love somebody terribly, and then suddenly they’re gone from you, to think it’s somebody’s fault. Especially when it’s somebody you don’t like. I don’t like [MASK]. I guess it’s partly jealousy.

""	Walter	I don’t know how long we sat looking out to sea after that. She started it again. “There’s nothing ahead of us, is there [MASK]?” “No. Nothing.” “I don’t even know where we’re going.

Lilac Court Apartments	Sachetti	I got off the car and walked down to the Lilac Court Apartments, where [MASK] lived. It’s one of those court places where they have a double row of bungalows off a center lane, one-room shacks mostly that rent for about $3 a week.

""	Nettie	I told [MASK] I thought I had a real prospect, and to make out a card for him. The card automatically gave the date of the first call, and that was what I wanted. I signed a couple of letters, and around five-thirty I left.

""	Ike	and he’d call back. I walked around, digging my fingernails into my hands, trying to hold on to myself. The drawstring began to jerk on my throat again. I began mumbling again, saying over and over what I had just said to [MASK].

""	Keyes	They finally settled it that [MASK] would make it on his own personal respon- sibility, and the rest of them wouldn’t be there. Then they all tip-toed out. They didn’t even say good-bye. It was funny.

""	Phyllis	“Listen, [MASK], there’s no use of you waiting around here. Why don’t you blow?” “Well—you don’t mind?” “Not a bit. No sense dragging it out.” “Good-bye, then.”

Gerty	Lola	He quit seeing [MASK]. He didn’t even tell her why. He went up to this woman and began making love to her, as hard as he knew. That is, almost as hard as he knew.

""	Huff	“It didn’t look funny at all. It happens every day. Now if they had tried to insure him, without him knowing, that would have looked funny.” “That’s right. Leave [MASK] out of it.”

Death	Nirdlinger	Because if [MASK] died of apoplexy, or heart failure, and fell off the train, then it wouldn’t any longer be accident, but death from natural causes, and they wouldn’t be liable. About the middle of the afternoon they got the medical report.

