""	Camagu	What better way than to lament the folly of belief of the era of the child-prophetesses and the sufferings of the Middle Generations which were brought about by the same scourge of belief?” [MASK] no longer wants to steal away. He wants to stay and watch the whole ritual.

""	Nxito	They were angry. But not with the prophets. The Great Disappointment was the fault of [MASK] and his spies, who had insulted the new people. It was the fault of all Unbelievers, who had refused to slaughter their cattle and continued to cultivate their lands.

Gerty	Mhlakaza	But none of the other kings heeded the prophecies. At the same time, [MASK] was extending a hand of reconciliation to the white settlers. He was asking them to kill their cattle and destroy their crops as well, for the sake of their own redemption.

""	Camagu	He is ready to cry for beautiful things. And these include the fresh breeze that comes from the sea. He takes a walk with the view of bathing his lungs in the air. “Tat’uBhonco!” It is [MASK]. The elder is glad to see him.

""	Camagu	“I will show you where she lives.” “I know where she lives,” replies [MASK]. He really does not want her to come with him. He is still uncomfortable when people see them together and point fingers and giggle.

""	Zim	“How can I be hiding myself when I am here in person?” [MASK] wonders. “Was it me who said you must charge my daughter instead of me? I know the laws, customs, and traditions of our people as well as any man.

Gerty	Zim	They must become amagqobhoka—enlightened ones—like her. She has bought her parents dresses and suits in the latest European styles. She might as well have bought them for the moths in the boxes under their bed. When [MASK] arrives, heads turn.

""	Qukezwa	He takes the nest and examines the great craftsmanship. It was almost complete. Now the poor bird will have to start its construction from scratch. He puts the nest on the ground and is about to doze off when [MASK] arrives and angrily wakes him up.

""	nkamnkam	“But when you laugh at my misfortunes, such as my not getting [MASK] from the government even though I am an aged one, you forget that we are both of the headless one. Or when you want to destroy the people by standing in the way of progress.

""	Majola	“My totem snake, you mean. What about it?” “Don’t you think you are reinforcing barbarism in this village?” “Then I am a barbarian, because I believe in [MASK], in the same way that my parents before me believed in him.”

""	Twin	Buyers of art were more interested in twisted people. People without proportion. People who grew heads on their stomachs and eyes at the back of their heads. Grotesque people with many arms and twisted lips on their feet. [MASK] refused to create things that distorted reality.

""	Qukezwa	But he seemed to have lost all interest in the raids. He just wanted to sit on the hill with [MASK], and await salva- tion that would come from the Russian ships. Somehow his belief had made him lethargic. The staunch Believers continued their raids without him.

Ponyboy	Dalton	“This child of [MASK]!” exclaims the uncle. “Where do you come from? Don’t you know that our custom demands that on occasions like this, proper meat should be served and not your snakes from the sea?”

The	Camagu	The dagga smokers are making the place livelier by clapping hands and dancing what looks like the toyi-toyi—the freedom dance that the youth used to dance when people were fighting for liberation. Its political fervor has been replaced by a religious one. [MASK] joins them.

""	Nongqawuse	“I don’t remember her. Of course that is a common name in these parts. It has historical significance . . . from the days of [MASK]. What has she done? Why are you looking for her?”

""	Dalton	She rents it out to inland people who want to hold parties or wedding receptions at the sea. This happens mostly in December during the holiday season. Most of the year the cottage is unoccupied. [MASK] thinks that the doctor will be happy to have someone looking after it.

""	Camagu	Everyone cheers and claps hands and sings for her. It is true that [MASK] underestimated the number of people who would come to his housewarming party. He had thought that only those he had invited would come. He had forgotten that in the village a feast belongs to everyone.

""	Camagu	“I am not anyone’s son-in-law,” says [MASK], beginning to lose his patience. “And I am not an Unbeliever. I am not a Believer either. I don’t want to be dragged into your quarrels.

Believers	Bhonco	He has played into [MASK]’s hands. It is as if the elder was waiting for just that kind of stupid statement. “It is clear that the Believers are mad,” he says. “It is foolish to talk of conserving indigenous trees.

""	Zim	[MASK]. It is a name that buzzes in his vengeful head. And then there are the hadedah ibises that have now taken to loitering outside his pink rondavel, sharing corn with the hens and their broods. Although the ibises are bigger and uglier birds, the hens are no 10 longer bothered by them.

Ponyboy	Mhlakaza	Then [MASK] would take over and make his pronouncements. But the favorite of the people, and even of the chiefs, was young Nombanda, who talked so sweetly of the beautiful life that awaited those who carried out the instructions of the Strangers.

""	Qukezwa	The bloody thing crashes its way out. It immediately starts screaming. It is as though it wants to compete with the ululation outside, and the heckling. “It is a boy,” says a grandmother. “A boy,” says [MASK], forgetting the pain.

""	Dalton	I merely expressed a different point of view about the water project. . . after you had solicited my opinion.” “Okay, maybe it was childish of me to take it personally,” admits [MASK], “but let’s talk about this imbhizo.

""	NomaRussias	Her beauty exceeds that of the hungry women who are referred to as supermodels in fashion magazines. It is the kind of beauty that is cold and distant, though. Not the kind that makes your whole body hot and charges it with electric currents, like [MASK].

""	Unbelievers	I have a few ideas in my mind.” “That is wonderful. You could be very useful in our self-help projects.” “Hey, I don’t want to be part of the war between the Believers and [MASK].” “Why should you?

Qukezwa	Heitsi	That is why he had kept the government letter and the court order until the last minute. To win his people back. She sings in soft pastel colors, this Qukezwa. She sings in many voices, as [MASK] plays on the sand.

Gerty	NoPetticoat	As he tiptoes past the pink rondavel he almost falls on [MASK], who is busy washing a gigantic three-legged cast-iron pot. “You don’t have to steal away like a thief in the night,” she says with a smile.

Gerty	Zim	she demands. “How do you know that he cannot be cured out of this state and enjoy the life of this world again?” People remember that [MASK] wanted to die once many years ago. He felt that he had overstayed his welcome on earth.

""	Camagu	She was an ordinary poet who composed bad verses and was an aspirant performer of them. And what breathless adventures! [MASK] is quite smug about the fact that he once made the most powerful woman in the country, the woman before whom powerful men tremble, scream for mercy.

Gerty	NoEngland	If she had not hurried to the world of the ancestors, leaving her husband and children in a world that has been so defiled by lack of belief. [MASK] has been in his mind all the time lately, to the extent that he has not touched his food.

""	Nongqawuse	[MASK] herself stood here. Across the river the valley was full of ikhamanga. There were reeds too. They are no longer there. Only ikhamanga remains. And a few aloes. Aloes used to cover the whole area.

Gerty	Hintsa	He announced to the multitudes, “I have seen my father! I have seen [MASK] face-to-face.” That night, as provisions were being cooked for the king and his entourage for the long ride back to his Great Place, he decided to take a walk.

Gerty	Zim	For the sake of the village it is better if the elders lead their followers into working together rather than pulling in different directions. He offers to mediate. “You cannot be a mediator,” says [MASK].

""	Heitsi	He had no wish to steal anyone’s food. He was fulfilled in his hunger. All he wanted to do was to sit in a dazed state with his Qukezwa and [MASK], and await the Russian ships and the coming of the forebears riding on the waves.

Gerty	Dalton	All the while they are puffing on their long pipes and ejecting jets of spittle onto the ground. It is a habit that [MASK] hates, but he ignores it. He is a beggar here and he cannot dictate how people should behave. Two chairs are brought for them.

Gerty	Nongqawuse	It was like that too in the days of [MASK]. We stood here and saw the wonders. The whole ridge was covered with people who came to see the wonders. Many things have changed. The reeds are gone.

Gerty	Zim	By the end of the concert her voice is gone. It became hoarse and then disappeared. The villagers are angry that [MASK] has spoiled the concert, but there is nothing they can do about it. It is only money that talks at a concert.

""	Dalton	He simply cannot understand her. Yesterday, for instance. Why did she pretend not to know him? And she was not just doing that for the benefit of her father and [MASK]. She has done this before.

Ponyboy	Vathiswa	And then there are the visits to her house in the schoolyard, which sometimes take place in the evening. Others believe that he has slept there on occasion, although no one can vouch to have seen him with their own eyes. “Even in magazines people wear isikhakha,” says [MASK].

""	Camagu	And she brought us bottles of sea water. She knows that we inland people love to drink the sea because it cures all sorts of diseases. Praise the Lord!” “Amen!” “Hallelujah!” [MASK] goes out for a little fresh air and a smoke.

Ponyboy	Bhonco	He has now adopted a new set of rituals that combine the best from the two denominations. For instance, he takes regular enemas and emetics to cleanse himself, as he comes into contact with Unbelievers like [MASK] on a regular basis.

""	Camagu	Three or four women will get jobs. As for the rest of the workers, the owners of the gambling city will come with their own people who are experienced in that kind of work.” [MASK] is taken aback both by her fervor and her reasoning.

Gerty	Qukezwa	Every night the twins shook with fear when they saw rivers of fire raging down the mountains. They knew immediately that this was the path to avoid, for it was the path of the disease. “The stars tell me that we must move until the sea stops us,” [MASK] told them.

""	NomaRussia	Do you think everyone is a baby in this village?” “Of course not!” “[MASK] never worked for you. She doesn’t work for anyone.” “Do you know her then? Please tell me where I can find her.”

Gerty	Nongqawuse	He has not seen her since he was attacked by a fit of madness a week ago. He has returned to the lagoon and to [MASK]’s Valley over and over again, hoping she would be there, but she has been nowhere to be found.

""	Camagu	In crude and glaring colors. And in bright glossy colors. In subdued colors of the newly turned fields. All at the same time. Once more wetness imposes itself on a hapless [MASK]. The song ends. She surveys the audience. Utter silence ensues.

""	Camagu	“That’s what you get when you dig out the past that is best forgotten.” “It is not the past,” says [MASK] emphatically. “It is the present. Those trophies are still there . . . today ... as we speak.”

""	Gxagxa	Through the voice of the umrhubhe she saw the new people riding on the waves, racing back according to the prophecies, and led by none other than [MASK] and the headless patriarch. The song of the umrhubhe creates a world of dreams.

""	Camagu	“Maybe you will come up with new ideas on how to make these people pay for the water.” “That will be impossible,” says [MASK]. “My hands are full already with the cooperative society.” The cooperative society is not doing badly.

""	Hke	It is you, woman, who have put these strange ideas in his head. Now my brother dreams of foreign prophets that have nothing to do with the amaXhosa people. Is it your ubuthi—your witchcraft—that has made him become [MASK] this?”

""	Twin	She is telling all these lies, dreaming all these dreams, seeing all these imaginary visions, because she is starved of men!” It was too late for [MASK] and his fellow Believers to close their ears to avoid being contaminated by such blasphemy.

""	Dalton	Most people agree that the Believers have gone overboard in their madness. [MASK], for instance, has been urging the chief to stop the boys from taking the eggs of birds from their nests. Whoever heard of such nonsense? Don’t all boys grow up doing that?

Gerty	Zim	And normally they are such great friends. But the taunts of the village girls are becoming too much to bear. “We are not supposed to talk ill of the dead, but your mother was not so innocent in this matter,” continues [MASK].

Gerty	Nongqawuse	But they had appeared to [MASK] again, and ordered her to give the message to her uncle. He had therefore told the chiefs and was given permission to call the imbhizo. He urged those present not to take the words of the Strangers lightly.

Gerty	Heitsi	She jumps out of the water, and goes to caress its neck. She tells it to go and graze some more, for she intends spending the whole day playing in the sea. She hopes that [MASK] will finally agree to follow her into the water.

""	Qukezwa	“What do you want here? Are you not satisfied with what you did to my mother? Have you come to put the final nail in my father’s coffin?” “Please, [MASK],” the woman whispers wanly, “have a heart.

""	Nxito	Even the ancestors would kick you out of their ranks if you came to them as a failure like that.” “As for me,” said [MASK], “I do not think happiness is obtainable. I have been living in this world for many years.

""	But	[MASK] it overturned, and the men in it nearly drowned. One of the men refused to get back into the boat. He swam to the shore and ran away like a scared rabbit, to the guffaws of the amaXhosa soldiers. They did not chase him, though.

Ponyboy	Dalton	He is foaming at the mouth as he screeches something about the head that has caused him misery. Customers and passersby finally grab him and disarm him. [MASK] is unconscious on the floor. He is bleeding profusely from a gaping wound on the head and another one on the arm.

""	Camagu	This has gone beyond a joke, thinks [MASK]. He came to the concert to enjoy himself, not to be the center of so much ridicule. But the NomaRussias of Qolorha-by-Sea do not see this as ridicule.

Gerty	Camagu	shouts [MASK] to the indifferent dawn. “Let me soar to the sky like the creations of the dead man!” The mourners hear him, for now they are streaming out of the tent. The vigil is over. It is time to prepare for the funeral.

Believers	Nongqawuse	Another group says that even if she did live in these parts, she was a liar and a disgrace. They don’t want to hear or know anything about her. It is only the family of Believers and their few followers who take [MASK] seriously and are proud of her heritage.

""	Camagu	This comes as a shock to [MASK]. He does not believe it, and he says so. “It is true. But she cannot name the man. She says it just happened on its own. The grandmothers who examined her confirmed that she has not known a man before.”

""	Nongqawuse	They were not wailing. They just sat there and stared into nothingness. As usual they were unkempt. But [MASK] was nowhere to be seen. It was whispered that she had taken refuge with one of the believing chiefs. “He was a great man!

""	Camagu	Or ask this son of Cesane.” “No. Not me,” says [MASK]. “I am not on the water committee. No one ever elected me there.” “No one ever elected you in any of these quarrels between the Believers and Unbelievers.

Gerty	NomaRussia	He has not seen her since the silvery night, months ago. He thought he had freed himself from her inebriating power, until she started invading his dreams, as [MASK] used to do. Orgastic dreams. Dreams in slow motion.

Gerty	Bhonco	“Don’t even mention water,” says [MASK]. “He has all this water in every room while our communal water taps have been closed! Now our wives have to go to wells far away, or to the rivers.”

Stranger	Nombanda	The voice persisted. She slowly walked to the bush, while [MASK] remained transfixed. At that time mist rose around the bush. The faces of two Strangers appeared in the mist and addressed her.” “What did they say?” people wanted to know.

""	Bhonco	But a wizard he was not. [MASK] is adamant about that. Twin-Twin was a naughty man. Even after he died he became a naughty ancestor. Often he showed himself naked to groups of women gathering wood on the hillside or washing clothes in a stream.

""	Qukezwa	She valued money more than her child, they said. “I still want to come,” insists [MASK]. “They must get used to seeing us together, and talk until their tongues are twisted. Unless you want to chicken out.”

""	Camagu	Where do you get off telling me I don’t believe in the ancestors?” he shouts, throwing two shiny five-rand coins into the pool. A white wild fig tree stands out among the green bushes. [MASK] is lost in the antics of the birds that are eating the figs.

Gcaleka	Sarhili	Although [MASK] was chief of the amaGcaleka clan, he was recognized as the king of all the clans of the amaXhosa. Even those amaXhosa who lived in the lands that were now under British rule paid allegiance to him. When he showed great interest in the prophecies, many amaXhosa people followed him.

""	Humanity	“That is the river of life. You are the river. It is from this river that men and women have come. [MASK] flows from the same mouth that gushes your curse. It is no curse. I do not mind to swim in that river.

""	Camagu	The old man reprimands him for the hundredth time for making wild claims that the private parts of a Khoikhoi ancestor live in a bottle in the land of the white man. [MASK] apologizes for the hundredth time for making this statement at a public feast, but insists that it is true.

""	Camagu	He calls a prancing boy to lead the esteemed visitor to the place where he will be served. The boy leads [MASK] towards an umsintsi tree under which some village men are eating meat from a big dish and drinking beer in a tin container that is passed from one man to the next.

Gerty	Bhonco	She is thirty-six years old. And if they don’t accept her it will be the work of the Believers. They are jealous because they don’t have a daughter who is as educated,” says [MASK], making it clear that the discussion is terminated.

""	Dalton	“That is a concert where everyone sings and dances. It is not an attempt to ridicule my wife.” To placate the elder, [MASK] invites him over to his store. He prom- ises him that they will sit down and explore other ways of solving the matter.

""	Camagu	The pain ended up attacking his body. It ravaged his insides. The beauty of death is that it separates us from the pain that racks our bodies.” [MASK]’s hopes that things would come right were crushed by a strike at the school where he was teaching.

Gerty	NoEngland	She thought she was going to die. Her friend ran to the village to call for help. That night [MASK] gave her a thorough hiding. Since her mother’s death she has learned how to swim, and has become quite an expert at harvesting the sea.

""	Ned	They have to begin searching once again. It is an illusion. That is why our people are now dying of starvation. All in pursuit of happiness.” “Don’t tell us about those,” responded [MASK]. “They are stupid heathens.”

Ponyboy	Twin	Everyone was waiting for the next full moon, which was to fall on io January 1857. The moon was going to be blood-red and the dead would arise. [MASK] was rather unhappy that none of the prophets could be seen in the joyous crowd.

""	Bhonco	[MASK] does not believe in grieving. He has long accepted that what has happened has happened. It is cast in cold iron that does not entertain rust. His forebears bore the pain with stoicism. They lived with it until they passed on to the world of the ancestors.

""	NoPetticoat	They will lobby for me. I must go because it works out much better when one is there. It is high time I went to live in more civilized places.” “Do you hear what she is saying, [MASK]? And this is what you support?”

""	Twin	“He is the one who taught my brother to create beautiful people who looked like real people. He pretends to know everything, so he should have known that people of the city who have money to buy carvings don’t like beautiful people. [MASK] could have been successful with his original stumpy bottlelike people.”

Gerty	Camagu	She knows that she will never get [MASK] back. He has decided to forsake all forms of civ- ilized life and to follow heathen ways. He is a lost cause. She wouldn’t have been happy with him in any case.

Ponyboy	Zim	Again he takes a circuitous route that passes [MASK]’s homestead. Sometimes he is brave enough to enter, and finds the old man dozing under his tree. He makes some small talk while his eyes search for something that they never seem to find.

Ponyboy	Qukezwa	She also taught him how to get amangquba and amaqonga, the varieties of abalone that look like big snails. He learned fast, for there was no guarantee that [MASK]’s good mood would still be there the next morning.

""	Twin	“It does sound like the village crier. But it cannot be war,” [MASK] assured her. “There cannot be a war at a sacred time like this.” He was wrong. It was a war cry.

""	Camagu	“The grandmothers have said she has never known a man.” “I do not care,” says [MASK] desperately. “I am willing to take responsibility. I can even claim paternity if need be. All I want is to marry your daughter.”

""	Bhonco	“The man is obviously a crook,” shouts [MASK]. “He says now we must build a hotel. For whom are we building this hotel? For him. He wants to use us to make himself rich in the same way he has used some of the foolish women of this village.”

Gerty	Camagu	If she had said she did not know them, that would have been the end of the story. It would have meant she was turning [MASK] down. “From where do you know them?” inquires an aunt.

Gerty	Twin	The one whose messengers were the ancestors. When [MASK] left his brother’s homestead he was a depressed man. He realized that his brother was too far gone to be saved. He was in cahoots with dangerous people who were servants of the colonial masters.

Gerty	Camagu	As [MASK] drives his Toyota Corolla on the gravel road he concludes that a generous artist painted the village of Qolorha-by-Sea, using splashes of lush color. It is a canvas where blue and green dominate.

Gerty	Dalton	She smiles back. She actually smiles back at him! His mind is no longer on the botanical garden. It is wandering somewhere in the clouds. [MASK] is telling him how the brilliant idea came to him one lovely day.

""	Xikixa	The twins were circumcised together with the son of the chief, and therefore became men of standing in their community. They became men of wealth too, for [MASK] did not want them to wait for his death before they could inherit his fields, cattle, and overflowing silos.

""	Camagu	[MASK] asked, not bothering to hide his contempt for the questioner. He did not get that job. “You can serve your country in the private sector,” the voice of wisdom whispered in his ear. “Why not try the private sector and the parastatals?”

""	Qukezwa	asked [MASK]. He could not answer that, but continued to moan about the treacherous nature of their saviors. He threatened that as soon as he got strong enough he would leave. He would go back to the land of his forefathers. “You have nothing.

""	Zim	Who knows what havoc he will create in the homesteads of the Unbelievers? [MASK] will be a very unfriendly ancestor. A vengeful one who will not be appeased even by slaughtered goats and oxen. The Believers have won one more time.

""	Twin	They drank sorghum beer. And early in the morning hours they saw cattle in the bushes and in the sea. Some of the people could even see their old friends and relatives who had long been dead. One morning [MASK] himself saw the risen heroes emerge from the sea.

""	Qukezwa	Hot colors like blazing fire. Deep blue. Deep green. Colors of the valleys and the ocean. Cool colors like the rain of summer sliding down a pair of naked bodies. She sings in soft pastel colors, this [MASK]. In crude and glaring colors.

