Gerty	Jan	It was the only thing you could have done; but I didn’t know my white face was making you feel guilty, condemning you. . . .” [MASK]’s lips hung open, but no words came from them; his eyes searched the corners of the room.

Dizzily	Bigger	Dizzily, he drew back. This was the end. There were no more roofs over which to run and dodge. He looked; the man was still coming. [MASK] stood up. The siren was louder than before and there were more shouts and screams.

Gerty	Peggy	And even if they did not say anything about it, [MASK] herself would soon come back and ask about the fire. Yes, he had to do something. He walked to the door of the furnace and opened it.

""	Mary	The white-haired old man and the white-haired old woman standing on the steps with their arms stretched forth pleadingly were a powerful symbol of helpless suffering and would stir up a lot of hate against him when it was found out that a Negro had killed [MASK].

""	Lemme	the preacher admonished. “I don’t want you!” “What’s the matter, son?” “Take your Jesus and go!” “But, son! Yuh don’t know whut yuh’s sayin’! [MASK] pray fer yuh!”

""	Bigger	“Just a little, [MASK].” “I need some.” “Here’s a half. That leaves me exactly one dollar to last till Wednesday.” He put the half-dollar in his pocket.

Gerty	Bigger	“[MASK], the people who hate you feel just as you feel, only they’re on the other side of the fence. You’re black, but that’s only a part of it. Your being black, as I told you before, makes it easy for them to single you out.

Gerty	Bigger	It’s cold.” [MASK] flattened against the building, in the dark. He saw a woman come out of a door, pause, look round; she went to the far end of the porch and dumped something into a garbage pail and went back inside.

’s face was metallically black in the strong sunlight.	Bigger	[MASK]’s face was metallically black in the strong sunlight. There was in his eyes a pensive, brooding amusement, as of a man who had been long confronted and tantalized by a riddle whose answer seemed always just on the verge of escaping him, but prodding him irresistibly on to seek its solution.

""	Yessuh	You’re to sleep in the back room, above the kitchen. You can give the $20 to your mother to keep your brother and sister in school. How does that sound?” “It sounds all right. [MASK].” “I think we’ll get along.”

""	Bigger	“I’m scared, [MASK].” “You can’t be scared now.” “You oughtn’t’ve killed her, honey.” “I didn’t mean to. I couldn’t help it. I swear!” “What happened?

Gerty	Peggy	He had quite forgotten that [MASK] was in the kitchen and when his plate was empty he took a soft piece of bread and began to sop it clean, carrying the bread to his mouth in huge chunks. “You want some more?”

Gerty	Bessie	His eyes looked with painful effort to the back of the room, for he felt that if he saw [MASK] again he would rise from his chair and sweep his arm in an attempt to blot out this room and the people in it.

""	Gus	[MASK] was not there. He felt a slight lessening of nervous tension and swallowed. He looked up and down the street; very few people were out and the cop was not in sight. A clock in a window across the street told him that it was twelve minutes to three.

Gerty	Max	He could recall none. He had lived outside of the lives of men. Their modes of communication, their symbols and images, had been denied him. Yet [MASK] had given him the faith that at bottom all men lived as he lived and felt as he felt.

Gerty	Bessie	The lamps were round hazy balls of light frozen into motionlessness, anchored in space and kept from blowing away in the icy wind by black steel posts. He went in and rang the bell and, in answer to a buzzer, mounted the stairs and found [MASK] smiling at him in her door.

Ponyboy	Peggy	“Sit here,” [MASK] said, clearing a place for him at a white-topped table. He sat and rested his cap on his knees. He felt a litde better now that he was out of the front part of the house, but still not quite comfortable.

""	Britten	“What’re you making this boy lie for?” “I suppose you’re going to tell us you weren’t drunk last night, hunh?” asked [MASK]. “What business is that of yours?”

""	Bigger	But they do that to others, too. They hate me because I’m trying to help you. They’re writing me letters, calling me a ‘dirty Jew.’ ” “All I know is that they hate me,” [MASK] said grimly.

Gerty	Mary	At least it took him away from that terrible image of [MASK]’s head lying on the bloody newspaper. He wanted to kiss her again, but deep down he did not really mind her standing off from him; it made him hunger more keenly for her.

Gerty	Buckley	The room was quiet as a tomb. [MASK] strode to the window and with one motion of his hand hoisted it up. The rumbling mutter of the vast mob swept in. The court room stirred. “Kill ’im now!”

""	Lord	“Hunh? Oh, yessuh.” He laid the nickel on the counter; he saw the blurred loaf being handed to him. “Thank you. Call again.” He walked unsteadily to the door with the loaf under his arm. Oh, [MASK]!

""	Mary	“Who?” “The gendeman.” “Oh; yes. Take the trunk on. I suppose [MASK] was up to some of her pranks.” He got into the car and pulled it down the driveway to the street, then headed northward over the snow.

""	Bigger	“Yeah; but what the hell can a guy do with ping-pong?” “Do you feel that that club kept you out of trouble?” [MASK] cocked his head. “Kept me out of trouble?”

Ponyboy	Max	The building was still jammed with muttering people. Policemen had to make an aisle for him in the crowd. A pang of fear shot through him when he saw that he had been the first to get to the table. [MASK] was somewhere behind him, lost in the crowd.

""	Peggy	“Oh, I’m sorry, mam. . . . Maybe she stayed with some friends of hers?” “But she was in her room at two o’clock this morning, [MASK]. Whose house would she go to at that hour?”

Ponyboy	Lissen	yuh tha’s His. He wants yuh ’n’ He loves yuh. Give yo’se’f t’ ’Im, son. [MASK], lemme tell yuh why yuh’s here; lemme tell yuh a story tha’ll make yo’ heart glad. . . .”

Gerty	Bigger	“So what}” “Don’t be that way, [MASK]!” He laid down his fork and his strong black fingers gripped the edge of the table; there was silence save for the tinkling of his brother’s fork against a plate.

""	Jan	He would say that he had not even opened them and had not wanted to. He would say that he had taken them only because [MASK] had insisted. He shuffled the pamphlets softly, so that the paper would not rustle, and read the titles: Race Prejudice on Trial.

""	Bigger	One witness melted into another. [MASK] ceased to care. He stared listlessly. At times he could hear the faint sound of the winter wind blowing outdoors. He was too tired to be glad when the session ended.

""	Bigger	“You ain’t going to turn away from me now! Not now, Goddamn you!” She said nothing. He took off his cap and coat and threw them on the bed. “They’re wet, [MASK]!” “So what?”

Rat	Bigger	The rat squeaked and turned and ran in a narrow circle, looking for a place to hide; it leaped again past [MASK] and scurried on dry rasping feet to one side of the box and then to the other, searching for the hole.

""	Bigger	“That’s a goddamn lie!” [MASK] shouted. His body seemed a flaming cross as words boiled hysterically out of him. “I told you I don’t want you! If you come in here, I’ll kill you! Leave me alone!”

""	Max	In a sense he had forgotten [MASK] was in the room. He was trying to feel the texture of his own feelings, trying to tell what they meant. “Oh, I don’t know. I was feeling a little that way. Yeah, I reckon I was.

""	Bigger	■ “Well, what do you want me to do?” “I’ll try to get ’im to come here. I’ll phone his office, and if he’s not there I’ll phone his home.” [MASK] heard their footsteps dying away.

""	Bigger	The smoke surged out, thick and acrid. Goddamn! “You’d better do something about those ashes, boy!” one of the men called. “That fire can’t get any air, [MASK]!”

""	Erlone	“Come on, [MASK]. I don’t know what you’re up to, but you’ve been lying ever since you’ve been in this room. You said you didn’t come here last night, and then you say you did.

""	Britten	He turned his head aside and fought to control himself. He was full of hysteria. “Say, how about a look at the girl’s room?” asked one of the men. “Sure. Why not?” [MASK] said.

""	Peggy	He wanted some, but he knew that he should not ask with the white men waiting to drink. “Thank you, sirs,” [MASK] mumbled, looking humbly round at the strange faces of the men. “I’ll get the sugar and cream and some cups.”

""	Bessie	“I mean now?” “Yes; if you tell me what to trust you for?” “Maybe I can’t do that.” “Then you don’t trust me.” “It’s got to be that way, [MASK].”

""	Britten	“You have any luck with the old man?” “Not yet.” It was [MASK]’s voice. “He’s pretty washed up, eh?” “Yeah; and who wouldn’t be?” “He won’t call the cops?”

""	Bigger	“I know how you feel, boy. You’re colored and you feel that you haven’t had a square deal, don’t you?” the man’s voice came low and soft; and [MASK], listening, hated him for telling him what he knew was true.

Ghost	Mary	He had killed within himself the preacher’s haunting picture of life even before he had killed [MASK]; that had been his first murder. And now the preacher made it walk before his eyes like a ghost in the night, creating within him a sense of exclusion that was as cold as a block of ice.

""	Tom	You really think they don’t know where the girl is?” “I know they don’t.” “[MASK] know?” “Naw.” “She’ll turn up.” “She won’t. And, anyhow, she’s a crazy girl.

Ponyboy	Doc	He went to the vestibule and swung through the door into the street, feeling that ball of hot tightness growing larger and heavier in his stomach and chest. He opened his mouth to breathe. He headed for [MASK]’s and came to the door and looked inside.

Panic	Bigger	The white man’s eyes were steadily upon him. Panic seized [MASK] as he saw the white man lower his head, narrow his eyes still more, sweep back his coat and ram his hands into his pants’ pockets, revealing as he did so a shining badge on his chest.

Gerty	Bigger	The men on the inside of those buildings have begun to doubt, just as you did. They don’t believe any more. They don’t feel it’s their world. They’re resdess, like you, [MASK]. They have nothing.

""	Buckley	“Gentlemen, let’s don’t be childish! This boy’s going on trial for his life. My job is to enforce the laws of this state. . . .” [MASK]’s voice stopped as the door opened and the policeman looked inside.

""	Yessuh	“Sit down. You needn’t stand. And I won’t be long.” “[MASK].” He sat. The white cat still contemplated him with large, moist eyes. “Now, you have a mother, a brother, and a sister?”

""	Bessie	Was she not his girl? Yes; she was his girl. He had to have a girl, so he had [MASK]. But he did not love her. Is love possible to the life of a man I’ve described to this Court? Let us see.

""	Bigger	[MASK] relaxed and felt his heart pounding. He longed for something to happen so that the white faces would stop staring at him. Finally, the faces turned away. The coroner strode to the table and lifted the kidnap note with a slow, long, delicate, and deliberate gesture.

""	Jan	Then he heard [MASK] speaking in low tones. “Where’s the bottle?” “Right here.” “I want a sip.” “I’ll take one, too, honey.” “Going heavy tonight, ain’t you?”

""	Britten	Was [MASK] coming to talk to him now? There came the sound of other voices. “It’s a ten-to-one chance that she’s dead.” “Yeah. They usually bump ’em off. They’re scared of’em after they get ’em.

""	Hunh	“[MASK]?” “Come on, honey.” They were still a moment longer; then she rose. He waited. He heard her clothes rustling in the darkness; she was undressing. He got up and began to undress.

Gerty	Dalton	The car stopped; he helped her on, put seven cents in her trembling hand and stood in the snow watching her black face through the window white with ice as the car moved off slowly through the night. He walked to [MASK]’s through the snow.

""	Mary	You want me to stay on the job?” “Sure. We must see this Jan. I can’t understand [MASK]’s going away and not saying anything.” “I can have ’im picked up.” “No, no! Not that way.

""	Bigger	“Yessum,” he mumbled. The bell rang again, insistendy. He fumbled in the dark for the light chain and pulled it. Excitement quickened within him. Had something happened? Was this the police? “[MASK]!” a muffled voice called.

""	Bigger	“Open that door! I’m choking!” There was a scuffle of feet. [MASK] felt the icy wind of the night sweep over him and he discovered that he was wet with sweat. Somehow something had happened and now things were out of his hands.

Erlone	Jan	He suspected a trap. But if [MASK] really had an alibi, then he had to talk; he had to steer them away from himself. “Yessuh.” “Well, somebody’s lying. That Erlone fellow says that he can prove it.”

Gerty	Bigger	You scared I’m going to say yes and you’ll have to go through with the job. ...” “Say that again! Say that again and I’ll take one of these balls and sink it in your Goddamn mouth,” [MASK] said, his pride wounded to the quick.

""	Bessie	“O.K., honey. But be careful.” “Look, [MASK], don’t you worry none. Just trust me. No matter what happens, they won’t catch us. And they won’t even know you had anything to do with it.”

Gerty	Bigger	“Get your clothes on. And get them blankets and quilts. We got to get out of here.” She went to the bed and rolled the covers back, rolling the pillows with them; as she worked [MASK] went to her and put his hands on her shoulders.

""	Max	And we’re after the one who killed this girl and the reasons for it! If you think these questions have the wrong construction, you may question the witness when we’re through. But you cannot regulate the questions asked here!” [MASK] sat down.

""	Max	The judge rapped for order, and said: “Court will adjourn for one hour.” [MASK] was on his feet. “Your Honor, you cannot do this. ... Is it your intention. . . . More time is needed. . . .

""	Bigger	[MASK]’s voice came quiet, childlike in its tone of hungry wonder. “Yes. What you felt, what you wanted, is what keeps those buildings standing there. When millions of men are desiring and longing, those buildings grow and unfold.

Gerty	Mary	Maybe he had done wrong in taking that trunk? Maybe it would have been better to have carried [MASK] down in his arms and burnt her? But he had put her in the trunk because of the fear of someone’s seeing her in his arms.

Ponyboy	Dalton	Here all slept in one room; there he would have a room for himself alone. He smelt food cooking and remembered that one could not smell food cooking in [MASK]’s home; pots could not be heard rattling all over the house.

""	Max	I can say it now, ’cause I’m going to die. I know what I’m saying real good and I know how it sounds. But I’m all right. I feel all right when I look at it that way. ...” [MASK]’s eyes were full of terror.

""	Bessie	“But they might find us there.” “There’s plenty of’em. It’ll be like hiding in a jungle.” The milk on the stove boiled over. [MASK] rose, her lips still twisted with sobs, and turned off the electric switch.

""	Bigger	No; let her be with him; let somebody be with him now. She caught hold of his coat and he felt her body trembling. “Will they come for me, too, [MASK]? I didn’t want to do it!”

Gerty	Bigger	[MASK] read a long stretch of type in which was described the “questioning of a Negro chauffeur,” “the half-packed trunk,” “the Communist pamphlets,” “drunken sexual orgies,” “the frantic parents,” and “the radical’s contradictory story.”

""	Bigger	What’re you doing? Don’t shoot. ... I haven’t bothered you. . . . Don’t. . . .” “Leave me alone,” [MASK] said, his voice tense and hysterical. “Leave me alone! Leave me alone!”

""	Buckley	“This is totally unnecessary. There is a plea of guilty here. ...” “I’m going to prove that that killer is sane!” [MASK] shouted. “The Court will hear them,” the judge said.

Gerty	Max	He was defenseless now. What was there to prevent those people from coming across those railings and dragging him into the street, now that [MASK] was not here? He sat, not daring to look round, conscious that every eye was upon him.

""	Max	[MASK] was upon another planet, far off in space. Was there any way to break down this wall of isolation? Distractedly, he gazed about the cell, trying to remember where he had heard words that would help him. He could recall none.

Gerty	Peggy	He heard a phone ring in the hallway. [MASK] straightened and looked at him as she wiped her hands on her apron. “Who on earth’s calling here this early on a Sunday morning?” she mumbled. She went out and he sat, waiting.

""	Hunh	“What’s the matter, honey?” she asked. “[MASK]?” “What’s on your mind?” “Nothing.” “Come on and tell me. You worried?” “Naw; naw. . . .”

""	Jan	He looked back; the woman was vanishing through the snow, in the opposite direction. In him as he walked was a cold, driving will. He would go through with this; he would work fast. He had encountered in [MASK] a much stronger determination than he had thought would be there.

Gerty	Bessie	He stood a moment looking through the cracks into the humming fire, blindingly red now; then he went into the driveway, through the falling snow to the street. He had to see [MASK] at once; the kidnap note had to be sent right away; there was no time to lose.

""	Bigger	“What’s the matter, boy?” one of them asked. “Nothing,” [MASK] said. The man with the shovel stood in front of the furnace and looked down into the ashes strewn over the floor. What’s he doing?

""	Bigger	“You don’t have to unless you want to.” “Don’t be that way.” “You just can’t treat me any old way, [MASK].” “I ain’t trying to, honey.” “You can’t play me cheap.”

Gerty	Bigger	“If he made you do it, then sign a complaint against him.” [MASK] saw the shining tip of the man’s black shoes; the sharp creases in his striped trousers; the clear, icy glinting of the eyeglasses upon his high, long nose.

Gerty	Bigger	[MASK] said nothing. He was limp all over; he was standing up here against this wall by some strength not his own. Hours past he had given up trying to exert himself any more; he could no longer call up any energy.

Hunger	Bessie	Hunger came to his stomach; an icy hand reached down his throat and clutched his intestines and tied them into a cold, tight knot that ached. The memory of the bottle of milk [MASK] had heated for him last night came back so strongly that he could almost taste it.

""	Bigger	“About eight-thirty, suh.” [MASK] knew that this was it. This man was here to find out everything. This was an examination. He would have to point his answers away from himself quite definitely. He would have to tell his story.

Ponyboy	Mary	[MASK] got out of the other door. Now, he could get some rest. So intensely taken up was he with his own immediate sensations, that he did not look up until he felt something strange in the long silence.

""	Bigger	“Come back here!” the man screamed. “Bring me my papers or I’ll tell the President and have you dismissed from office. . . What papers did they have of his? [MASK] wondered. Who was the president the man yelled about?

""	Bigger	If he could only tell him! Before he was aware of what he was doing, he ran to the door and clutched the cold steel bars in his hands. “I—I. . . .” “Yes, [MASK]?”

Gerty	Buckley	I shall endeavor to show, through the discussion of evidence, the mental and emotional attitude of this boy and the degree of responsibility he had in these crimes.” “That’s a defense of insanity!” [MASK] shouted.

""	Peggy	He had been so deeply taken up with his own thoughts that he did not know if he had actually heard anything or had imagined it. Yes; he heard faint footsteps below. He hurried to the closet. The footsteps ceased. There came to him the soft sound of sobbing. It was [MASK].

""	Mary	“I got a girl,” he said. “I’d like to meet her some time.” He did not answer. [MASK]’s eyes stared dreamily before her, as if she were planning future things to do.

""	Bigger	[MASK] paused, narrowed his eyes. “Naw; it ain’t like something going to happen to me. It’s. . . . It’s like I was going to do something I can’t help. . . .” “Yeah!”

""	Gee	I been working. And I been thinking hard about you. I been missing you. Listen, I got a room all my own where I’m working. Some nights you can stay there with me, see? [MASK], I been missing you awful, honey.

Gerty	Bessie	His body felt free and easy now that he had lain with [MASK]. That she would do what he wanted was what he had sealed in asking her to work with him in this thing. She would be bound to him by ties deeper than marriage.

""	Bigger	I ain’t trying to dodge what’s coming to me.” [MASK] was growing hysterical. “I know I’m going to get it. I’m going to die. Well, that’s all right now. But really I never wanted to hurt nobody.

""	Dalton	“That guy who was kissing old man [MASK]’s daughter was a Communist and her folks didn’t like it.” “Rich people don’t like Communists.” “She was a hot-looking number, all right.”

Gerty	Bigger	One of the men went up the steps and met her, took the table, opened it, and placed it for her. She set the pot upon it. [MASK] saw a thin spout of steam jutting from the pot and smelt the good scent of coffee.

""	Gus	He had shut his eyes when he had glimpsed the ball sailing through the air toward him and when he opened his eyes [MASK] was flying through the rear door and at the same time he heard the ball hit the floor and roll away. A hard pain throbbed in his hand.

Ponyboy	Bessie	He should see [MASK] tonight. And he ought to pick out the pencil and paper he would use. And he must not forget to use gloves when he wrote the note so that no fingerprints would be on the paper.

""	Bigger	“You see, [MASK], you the cause of all the trouble we ever have. It’s your hot temper. Now, how come you want to cuss me? Ain’t I got a right to make up my mind? Naw; that ain’t your way.

