Gerty	Michael	They wanted to take me out to dinner to cheer me up, but I didn't feel like talking about it. I was too busy trying not to think about it. I haven’t heard from [MASK]. It’s been two days since I returned his phone call.

Gerty	John	She squinted, hoping to get a closer look at [MASK]. It was indifference she saw all over his face. His shoulders were so erect when he popped a Pop-Tart into the toaster that she knew he didn’t really give a damn how she felt or what her reaction to his announcement would be.

""	Savannah	Of course, he called right back. "What’s wrong with you, [MASK]? What, did somebody break your heart since the last time I saw you or something? You sound bitter.” “I’m not bitter. I’m better.

Gerty	Bernadine	“No, nobody’s sitting there,” she said. She was embarrassed because she was sitting by herself at a bar. [MASK] didn’t want him or anybody else to think this was what she usually did. She hoped he wouldn’t start talking to her.

""	Lionel	As a matter of fact, the shit hurt. “[MASK], did you bring a condom?” "I’ve got it on,” he said. I felt down there just to make sure. When did he put the shit on? I wondered.

""	Charles	We found a table, but before we sat down, [MASK] asked if I wanted to dance. I said yes. So we danced. He danced like a man who was sure of himself. He watched me. I watched him. He smiled at me.

""	Michael	“Why?” “I was just curious.” I found a slice of avocado in my salad, pierced my fork into it, and sighed. Another Gemini. By anybody else’s standards, [MASK] would be considered a good catch—as catches go.

Gerty	Michael	I know I’ve limited myself by only dealing with pretty boys, which is probably the main reason I’m going to the other extreme tonight. Right now I’m sitting here waiting for [MASK], this man who’s coming over for dinner.

""	Phillip	I think cutting it was a good idea after all, but you’re gonna have to come in here at least every four weeks if you want it to keep looking like this.” “I will,” she said. “And thanks, [MASK].

""	Lionel	“Why not?” "It’s a detour, [MASK], and second of all, my girlfriend’s waiting for me.” “Girlfriend?" “Yeah, didn’t I tell you I was staying with a girlfriend when I got here?"

Gerty	Bernadine	[MASK] looked surprised, as if she hadn’t been in the kitchen in a long time. 'Ants?” she said, and walked over. She reached under the sink and got out some insect spray and started spraying like she was possessed.

Gerty	Bernadine	I hope everything is going okay. Call me when you get a chance. Here’s my number, in case you lost it.” By the end of the week I was a nut case. [MASK] said something probably happened.

Ponyboy	Russell	Everything [MASK] owns is on his back, in a closet, or parked in a garage. I’m just glad he was honest and told me where he was going, which tells me that he’s finally maturing.

Gerty	Bernadine	All he’d done was confirm what [MASK] didn’t know was true anymore: that she was still desirable, that she still had the power to pull, and that she could still make a man cry out in bed.

Ponyboy	Gloria	What is it, you’ve just got a thing for dogs? From your description, he sounded like a nice guy. So he’s a few pounds overweight. Big deal. Even [MASK] said she thought he was nice when she met him.

Gerty	Gloria	[MASK], who rarely got in her pool, took her dress off, got her bathing suit out of a drawer, and put it on. It was too tight, but she didn’t care. All she wanted to do was take a quick dip.

""	Joseph	“Well,” [MASK] said, "I haven’t talked to her since then, but hell, how would you feel if your husband just came home and told you he was leaving after a million years of marriage—for a white girl?”

""	Robin	[MASK] wiped her face with a towel and pulled her hair—or whose ever it was—into a knot. “And I’ll tell you another thing, since we’re sitting here. I’m not going to another one of these tired-ass parties with you, either.

""	Robin	We need to get deeper.” Then she shook her head back and forth as if she was trying to rattle her brains. “I’m getting off-track. What was I saying?" “Something about what we have in common,” [MASK] said.

""	Savannah	As soon as I walked into the room she stood up on all fours, stretched, and twirled her tail in the air. I listened to the machine rewind, flopped on the bed, and kicked off my shoes. "[MASK], this is your mother.

""	Gloria	And forget about the nails. I won’t be needing anybody’s long fingernails for what I’m about to do,” she said. "Which is what?" “You’ll see soon enough,” she said. “Don’t forget, [MASK].

""	Charles	"What's that?” "Leave me the fuck alone.” I hung up. And this time I unplugged the goddamn phone. I felt good. So good that I jumped in the air and kicked my heels together. Exactly the way [MASK] had.

Gerty	Victoria	"I hope it fits,” she said. “If you were my size, I could’ve given you a whole drawerful of this shit. I damn near own [MASK]’s Secret.” “Don’t tell me you don’t wear it?”

Gerty	Bernadine	Their peaks covered up most of the purple-and-pink skyline, but the rim of the orange sun wasn’t ready to leave just yet. [MASK] lit a cigarette and sat down in a lounge chair until she saw absolutely nothing. “It’s final!”

""	Bernadine	She saw her head roll across the wooden platform. [MASK] turned over, and she saw herself jumping out of a skyscraper window. She hit the pavement. And died. But she didn’t want to hit the pavement, so she went back up to the top floor and jumped again.

""	Savannah	"I hear you,” [MASK] said. “But you know what?” “What?” "It doesn’t bother me all that much.” ‘And why not?” "Because I think people have a right to love who they want to.

""	Happy	[MASK]. I don’t want her worrying about how she’s going to pay this or pay that, stressing herself all out. There’s one thing I already know. The first program I’m going to propose will definitely be about the lack of concern for the elderly.

""	Robin	[MASK] cut in. “It starts out with all women, but about nine or ten they let the men in. They usually get a pretty good band. It’s a lot of fun, if I do say so myself.

Gerty	James	[MASK] said he wanted to see what he could do to help get the King referendum passed in this racist state. Once and for all. He’d already joined a coalition to stop the liquor board from allowing so many liquor stores in the black community.

Gerty	Joseph	“I’m dead serious. And [MASK] said he saw her last Sunday at a Circle K and she was so out of it that he had to drive her home, but nobody seems to have talked to her since.

""	Jane	Her hands fell on top of the keys. “Did you say nine hundred and sixty-four thousand dollars'?” “That’s what I said.” “That’s almost a million dollars!” “That it is,” [MASK] said.

Gerty	Gloria	[MASK] wanted to know. “You know. When a man saw you in a crowd, smiled at you, flirted, and came over and talked to you. Not one has asked me for my phone number since I’ve been here. Why not?

Gerty	Charles	When we got outside, [MASK] asked if I wanted to take a taxi or walk. I was wearing flat shoes, so I told him I didn’t mind walking. “Good,” he said. “I feel like I could walk ten miles.”

""	Robin	“I hear you.” “I want to know what it is we can do to get them to understand that?” “Who you asking? All I can say is that black men can be one big question mark,” [MASK] said.

""	Robin	"Try to make it back on Friday. It’s going to be even better. But we need sisters like you three here to make it that way.” "Yeah, yeah, yeah,” [MASK] mumbled, as they walked out into the graveled parking lot.

""	Tarik	[MASK]’s asthma got less severe, and the allergy shots he had to get once a week helped, but he still couldn’t play in the grass, and his first furry pet, which was a rabbit, had to be his last.

Gerty	Russell	We went on [MASK]’s motorcycle, and when he pulled into the parking space next to our cars, somebody had slit the top of my 5.0 to shreds. That was the last straw. I didn’t want to hear another one of his tired excuses.

Gerty	Troy	I walked in my front door at ten after six. I looked between the cushions of the couch, the bathroom, under the bed— everywhere in that apartment—and still didn’t find my wallet. [MASK] showed up at six-thirty on the dot.

""	Gloria	What’s next? Will it be drugs? Is that what you’ll want me to deal with next? Huh?” “No.” [MASK] didn’t know she’d gone from mad to hysterical. “Just get out of my face!”

Gerty	Robin	“Well, I’ve got about three, and they’re on their last legs.” [MASK] started rubbing her eyes, because they were itching all of a sudden, and the next thing she knew she was sneezing. "You’re allergic to cats, right?”

Gerty	Bernadine	And when they did sleep in the same bed, their backs barely brushed. Rows of perspiration had trickled down the nape of her neck into her hair and soaked through the top of her nightgown. A lone stream was making its way down her spine. But [MASK] didn’t care.

""	Gloria	I’m not falling in love with his ass, and I’m not trying to take him from his damn wife. It’s just nice to know I can get what I need when I need it.” “You mean sex?” “No, [MASK].

""	Phillip	She wanted [MASK] to be straight with her. Tell her the truth about this shingles. Maybe she could ask somebody. But who? She turned on the ceiling fans and the stereo. There was a sudden chill. A void. The shop was empty.

""	Gloria	If we can help point them in the right direction, then we’re doing something. So thanks.” “Thankyou for telling me about it. Well, anyway, I’ve gotta go. I’ll probably see you sometime next week.” [MASK] was surprised when the phone rang again.

Gerty	Gloria	The waitress set the egg rolls, foil-wrapped chicken, and pot stickers on the table. She put the red sauce, plum sauce, and hot mustard next to it. [MASK] dug in. “You want to know who I love?" she said.

""	Bernadine	“He could be, but that’s not our problem, now is it?” “No, it isn’t,” [MASK] said, and swallowed hard. 'And you’re absolutely, positively sure about this?” “I just left his lawyer’s office.”

""	Sheila	I just talked to you two weeks ago, my goodness. Is something wrong?” “No. [MASK]’s pregnant.” ‘Again! What does she intend to do with four kids?” “You should keep your mouth shut.

""	Felicia	“You mean she’s on drugs?” "No. It means she’s a no go. 111. As in ugly.” "I’ve seen that girl before. And she is not ugly.” But she knew what he meant. [MASK] was fat.

""	Michael	So I had lunch with him again the next day, because he asked me. This time we went out to eat. Most men usually talk about themselves until you don’t have any questions left to ask, but not [MASK]. He was actually curious about me.

""	Kenneth	To see if what we had is still as strong as I feel it is. What’s wrong with that?” “Fuck you, [MASK], and the horse you rode in on,” I said, and hung up. Of course, he called right back.

""	Gloria	[MASK] dropped a few folded blankets on top of her friends and headed for the stairs. She stopped at the foot and looked up. At first it looked like an escalator, but then the steps stopped moving. She blinked, grabbed hold of the banister, and looked up again.

Gerty	Bernadine	That what she was doing was low and sleazy and the kind of shit she should’ve gotten out of her system in her twenties, not her thirties. But she was starving for real affection, for real tenderness, and [MASK] needed a real man to give it to her.

Gerty	Gloria	She waved back, tickled as she wanted to be, because no man had ever waited to watch her cross a street before, no man had ever volunteered to fix anything for her, and no man had ever made her feel this giddy. [MASK] liked the feeling.

""	Michael	“You want some coffee?” I ask, biting my bottom lip. "Yes, as a matter of fact, I do. Is this gonna be something heavy?” “I’m not sure, [MASK]. I’ve already got some coffee ready.

Xanax	Onika	By the time you were weaning [MASK] off breast milk, you started feeling restless and bored and got tired of staying at home with the kids all day long. You started watching those stupid soap operas and game shows and got a prescription for Xanax because you were screaming all day long.

""	Bernadine	“You got a point,” [MASK] said. “That asshole I was married to sure didn’t. Speaking of assholes, I should call him.” She got up and went to the phone. “Are you crazy, girl!"

""	Bernadine	“Yep,” [MASK] said. "I was just about to call you.” "Did you have a good time?" “I had a lovely time.” “Good. And what time were you planning on picking these kids up?”

""	Kenneth	“How can you say that, [MASK]?" "Because the only time we went out was when I called and asked you out.” “So?” “So I assumed you were seeing other men.” “But I wasn’t.”

""	Tarik	Anybody can get VD. I’ve had it.” [MASK] looked at his mama in total disbelief. 'And now there’s AIDS. You young people may think you’re immune, but this is one disease that can kill your black ass.”

""	Bernie	“Scared of what?” “I told you how much I used to love this man, [MASK].” “That’ll make the shit even better. Go for it.” “I went for it last time and got my ass in trouble.”

Gerty	Bernadine	She jumped over the rug, and the tiles made her feet cold, but [MASK] didn’t feel like putting on her slippers. She headed for the bathroom. Once in there, she stood stock-still and looked at herself in the wide mirror behind the two sinks.

Gerty	Gloria	[MASK] felt lips touching her face and forehead, her hands and arms. She didn’t know who all was kissing her, but it sure felt good. She also didn’t know what was going through those tubes that were sticking out of her arms.

""	Gloria	That itty-bitty white girl who lives two doors down?” "You asked, so I’m telling you." "You mean to tell me you’re screwing a white girl?" "What’s wrong with that?” [MASK] had to think about how to answer this one.

Gerty	Bernadine	[MASK] needed an assistant, but her boss was too cheap to get her one. Part of her job was paying her clients’ bills. She wrote the checks—for the IRS, for the payroll, for any maintenance problems that arose at the properties, and for emergencies.

""	Pookey	What does she intend to do with four kids?” “You should keep your mouth shut. And [MASK]’s home.” “When’d he get out?” “Two weeks ago.” “How’s he doing? What’s he doing?”

""	Robin	Shit. I don’t know. I called [MASK]. Why, I’ll never know. “I can’t think straight,” I said, “and this is ridiculous. You’d think I was on my way to my senior prom instead of dinner.”

""	Charles	All forty or so of us got off the bus. There were six or seven other buses in front of ours. After we registered and got our respective packets and name tags, we went to the exhibit. [MASK] and I talked through the whole thing.

Gerty	Russell	But I don’t believe it, because the one I’ve been on for the last two years was a dirt road. I finally gave up on [MASK]—a lying, sneaky, whorish Pisces— after realizing he was never gonna marry me.

Ponyboy	Pookey	‘At first [MASK] was giving me a little change, but then the landlord started asking me who he was, and I didn't wanna get in no trouble with the Section Eight people, so that’s when he moved in with that girl. I been eating okay.

""	Bernadine	[MASK] kept pressing the button on the remote to mm down the volume on the TV "What did you say?” But she had heard her daughter loud and clear. She tossed the remote on the coffee table, then watched it slide to the edge, where half of it hung over.

""	Robin	My parents’ve been through living hell these last few years. My mother had to have a double mastectomy, and then two years ago my father was diagnosed with Alzheimer’s.” “I’m sorry to hear that, [MASK]. Is he still able to be at home?”

""	Robin	"Well, in that case, I’d like to borrow about sixteen ounces of your boobs.’’ “Then buy you some. How do you think I got these?” They both laughed, and [MASK] sneezed again. “Well, I know one thing.

""	Gloria	So that’s what this was about. Now [MASK] knew why he’d been acting so ugly all week. "Well, look, I don’t want to force you to see him, but why didn’t you tell him yourself?”

""	Bernadine	Somehow the food at one of the facilities had gone bad, and several of the residents had gotten food poisoning. Two had died. Needless to say, the office was crazy. And today—of all days—[MASK] had a doctor’s appointment

Gerty	Paul	she’s talking about. I think she ran a TRW on [MASK] before she married him because as far as she’s concerned, if a man doesn’t have good credit and isn’t making six figures, then he’s not worth your time and energy.

Gerty	Troy	I had to get up and go to work in a matter of hours. I thought he fell asleep right after I did, but when I heard the phone ring and reached over to answer it, that’s when I noticed [MASK] was gone.

""	Robin	I just wish I could put your behind on a diet and stop you from eating all them hog maws and shit. Fifty pounds less, and your whole life would change.” "That’s bullshit,” [MASK] said. “I don’t need to lose any weight.

Gerty	Bernadine	Plus, he’d been begging her to buy these damn sneakers for months. [MASK] American Expressed over a thousand dollars on things she didn’t want: more makeup, another black purse, another mustard-colored suit for whatever, and a cheap watch.

""	Savannah	I guess you don’t know what your rising sign is, do you?” "No, I don’t,” [MASK] said. "Do you know what time you were born?” "Yes.” "Good, then I can do your chart for you.”

Gerty	John	She worried whether or not [MASK] was going to pay the April mortgage payment. What if he didn’t? What was she going to do? She worried about when this settlement business was ever going to be over. Next month or next year?

""	Kenneth	he said. "To be honest with you, [MASK], I’m not sure it’s such a good idea,” I said, and jumped out of the bed. “What’s wrong?” “Nothing,” I said. “Nothing.”

Nite Out	Sisters	There’s about fifteen of us, but we do have an advisory board, which you could probably get on. See if you can make it to the meeting next month. That’s when we’ll be forming committees for [MASK]’ Nite Out and discussing a few ongoing projects.”

Gerty	Dottie	“I think a whole lot of folks just paid for the workshops and not the luncheon,” [MASK] said. “That’s why most of them came, and that’s why we didn’t make any money on the luncheon.”

Gerty	Bernadine	There was nothing in here but old people. All the women’s hair was gray or white and teased to perfection and piled on top of their heads. [MASK] hadn’t seen so many rhinestones and sequins since her last New Year’s Eve party.

Gerty	Bernadine	One of the companies [MASK] represented owned a “chain” of nursing homes. This morning, she’d been informed that they were being sued. Somehow the food at one of the facilities had gone bad, and several of the residents had gotten food poisoning.

""	Savannah	“Well, this is a surprise,” I said, and put my magazine down. “You’re a hard person to find.” "I haven't been hiding.” He chuckled. “How are you, [MASK]?” "I’m fine.

""	John	But once they find out everything he owns, they still have to assess the value of it all, then figure out what [MASK]’s real net worth is, before we can even think about a settlement. So this shit could go on forever.”

Gerty	Bernadine	Hell, they’d been waiting as long as she had. Now it seemed as if they’d all won the lottery. And as far as [MASK] was concerned, they had. She looked at the control sheets spread out on her desk, then glanced down at the adding machine.

""	Lionel	Hell, it was New Year’s Eve. All [MASK] said was that he’d be wearing some snakeskin cowboy boots and one of those cowboy ties with silver tips on the end. It had a name, but I forgot what it was.

""	Robin	“I hear you,” [MASK] said and sat up. “But I know one thing: They better hurry up and get their act together or I might be tempted to cross the street like some of these sisters, who don’t seem to have any regrets either.”

""	Paul	“Ten years can destroy anything.” “Well, let me say this. [MASK] said he runs five miles a day, restores vintage cars, drives a Jeep, has a college education, is six one, and that’s all I know.”

""	Gina	Can I get a rain check?” ‘A rain check? You mean you can’t make it?" “I’m eating dinner.” “With what’s-her-name?” “Her name is [MASK].” “Whatever," I said.

Gerty	John	If she hadn’t trusted [MASK] all these years, she would’ve known that he’d just sold his half of the software company to his partner for a mere three hundred thousand dollars, even though its market value was well over three million.

""	Gloria	[MASK] told me to open my eyes and stop acting like I was blind. My mother said to make sure he used a condom from now on, and my daddy, who has Alzheimer’s, didn't understand what the big fuss was all about.

Gerty	Tarik	She loved hearing him play. She had taken the pie out of the oven and was ironing his shirt. He was getting his senior pictures taken tomorrow. [MASK] came in and sat down at the kitchen table. "

But	Michael	But [MASK] was too soft. What had I gotten myself into? “You feel better than I thought you would," he said. I didn’t say anything, because I couldn’t think of anything to say.

""	Robin	Anyway, I’m sorry I can’t hang out with you. But I’ll take your ass out for a real celebration after he leaves.” “Bye, girl. I’m gone.” After she hung up, she called [MASK], but she wasn’t home.

""	Gloria	"I know one thing, you’re about the only one I know who’s not having any problems in that department, I swear.” “He’s a tenderoni.” "You mean he’s younger than you are,” [MASK] said.

""	Gloria	Had So-and-so been in? Were her ends splitting again? What about her roots? What was everybody saying about him? Were they gossiping? Did any of them even care that he was sick? [MASK] lied and told him they were all deeply concerned.

""	Bernadine	“Get me some old rags, and lay her down on the couch.” [MASK] cleaned the floor on her hands and knees. By the time she finished, she couldn’t get up, let alone stand, so she crawled back into the living room.

