Jim	Ossipon	[MASK], not looking at her, and with a face like a fresh plaster cast of himself after a wasting illness, said: “By-the-by, I ought to have the money for the tickets now.”

Jim	Stevie	At the bottom of his pockets his incapable weak hands were clinched hard into a pair of angry fists. In the face of anything which affected directly or indirectly his morbid dread of pain, [MASK] ended by turning vicious.

Mrs. Lestrange	Michaelis	I had no idea myself that my work would be over so soon.” The Assistant Commissioner added in a low tone: “I am glad to tell you that [MASK] is altogether clear of this—” The patroness of the ex-convict received this assurance indignantly.

Jim	Stevie	His little red eyes glistened with moisture. His big lips had a violet tint. They remained closed. With the dirty back of his whip-hand he rubbed the stubble sprouting on his enormous chin. “You mustn’t,” stammered out [MASK] violently.

Poirot	meantime	And [MASK] the Chief Inspector went on, peering at the table with a calm face and the slightly anxious attention of an indigent customer bending over what may be called the by-products of a butcher’s shop with a view to an inexpensive Sunday dinner.

Dave	Stevie	“Oh! ’Ere you are, young fellow,” he whispered. “You’ll know him again—won’t you?” [MASK] was staring at the horse, whose hind quarters appeared unduly elevated by the effect of emaciation.

Mrs. Dalloway	Stevie	Moreover, she had not experienced the magic of the cabman’s eloquence. She was in the dark as to the inwardness of the word “Shame.” And she said placidly: “Come along, [MASK]. You can’t help that.”

Mrs. Dalloway	Verloc	He applied himself to the sentimental side of the affair. In his heart of hearts he was a little shocked at his success. [MASK] had been a good fellow, and certainly a very decent husband as far as one could see.

Jane	Winnie	I never knew him to have an accident.” “Accident!” shouted the driver in a scornful whisper. The policeman’s testimony settled it. The modest assemblage of seven people, mostly under age, dispersed. [MASK] followed her mother into the cab.

Vera	Ossipon	“It would be possible perhaps to find a safe lodging somewhere,” [MASK] spoke at last. “But the truth is, my dear, I have not enough money to go and try with—only a few pence. We revolutionists are not rich.”

Pip	Toodles	“That’s between ourselves strictly,” he said. “That’s the beastliest thing I’ve ever heard in my life,” declared [MASK] feebly, as if astonishment had robbed him of all his buoyant strength in a second. The Assistant Commissioner gave him an unsmiling glance.

Mrs. Ramsay	Winnie	[MASK] leaned on his shoulder from behind, and pressed her lips to his forehead. Thus she lingered. Not a whisper reached them from the outside world. The sound of footsteps on the pavement died out in the discreet dimness of the shop.

Lennie	Michaelis	[MASK], the ticket-of-leave apostle, smiled vaguely with his glued lips; his pasty moon face drooped under the weight of melancholy assent. He had been a prisoner himself. His own skin had sizzled under the red-hot brand, he murmured softly.

Harry	Ossipon	Who thought of it now? [MASK], as if suddenly compelled by some mysterious force, pulled a much-folded newspaper out of his pocket. The Professor raised his head at the rustle. “What’s that paper? Anything in it?” he asked.

Jim	Ossipon	[MASK] after waiting for something, word or sign, that did not come, made an effort to assume a sort of indifference. “Do you,” he said, deadening his voice still more, “give your stuff to anybody who’s up to asking you for it?”

Hamlet	Tom	[MASK], I tried. But I am afraid. I tried to do away with myself. And I couldn’t. Am I hard? I suppose the cup of horrors was not full enough for such as me. Then when you came. . . . ”

James	Ossipon	It was not till the hansom swung round a corner and towards the bridge that [MASK] opened his lips again. “Do you know how much money there is in that thing?” he asked, as if addressing slowly some hobgoblin sitting between the ears of the horse.

Ponyboy	Ossipon	He is elaborating now the idea of a world planned out like an immense and nice hospital, with gardens and flowers, in which the strong are to devote themselves to the nursing of the weak.” The Professor paused. “Conceive you this folly, [MASK]?

Frodo	Ossipon	He slapped [MASK]’s shoulder. “Beer! So be it! Let us drink and he merry, for we are strong, and to-morrow we die.” He busied himself with putting on his boots, and talked meanwhile in his curt, resolute tones.

Poirot	Verloc	The Chief Inspector snatched across the counter the cloth out of her hands, and she sat heavily on the chair. He thought: identification’s perfect. And in that moment he had a glimpse into the whole amazing truth. [MASK] was the “other man.”

""	Angelic	“[MASK]. . . . I picked up a handful of his pages from the floor. The poverty of reasoning is astonishing. He has no logic. He can’t think consecutively. But that’s nothing. He has divided his biography into three parts, entitled—‘Faith, Hope, Charity.’

Pip	Ossipon	After uttering these words the Professor walked away from the table. [MASK], whom that piece of insight had taken unawares, gave one ineffectual start, and remained still, with a helpless gaze, as though nailed fast to the seat of his chair.

""	Winnie	“It will be easier for you than for me. You’ll have something to do, while I—Look here, [MASK], what you must do is to keep this business going for two years. You know enough for that. You’ve a good head on you.

Jim	Stevie	Her eyes gleamed in the shadow of the cab straight ahead, immovable. On the box, [MASK] shut his vacant mouth first, in order to ejaculate earnestly: “Don’t.” The driver, holding high the reins twisted around the hook, took no notice.

Mr. Bates	Verloc	He lives over his shop?” “Who—[MASK]? Oh yes. He lives over his shop. The wife’s mother, I fancy, lives with them.” “Is the house watched?” “Oh dear, no. It wouldn’t do.

Jim	Ossipon	“It’s almost incredible the resemblance there was between you two,” pursued [MASK], giving a voice to his abiding dread, and trying to conceal his nervous, sickening impatience for the train to start. “Yes; he resembled you.”

Lestrade	Michaelis	This difficulty had its bearing upon his reputation, upon his comfort, and even upon the efficient performance of his duties. For, if [MASK] no doubt knew something about this outrage, the Chief Inspector was fairly certain that he did not know too much.

Mrs. Ramsay	Michaelis	Her drawing-room was probably the only place in the wide world where an Assistant Commissioner of Police could meet a convict liberated on a ticket-of-leave on other than professional and official ground. Who had brought [MASK] there one afternoon the Assistant Commissioner did not remember very well.

Mrs. Forrester	Ossipon	They talked for a while. She heard the guard say “Very well, sir,” and saw him touch his cap. Then [MASK] came back, saying: “I told him not to let anybody get into our compartment.” She was leaning forward on her seat.

Mary	Winnie	However, he never had any fits (which was encouraging); and before the natural outbursts of impatience on the part of his father he could always, in his childhood’s days, run for protection behind the short skirts of his sister [MASK].

Mrs. Ramsay	Stevie	She spared presently a glance away from her dishing-up for the inspection of that face and those hands which [MASK], approaching the kitchen table, offered for her approval with an air of self-assurance hiding a perpetual residue of anxiety.

Pip	Stevie	To be taken into a bed of compassion was the supreme remedy, with the only one disadvantage of being difficult of application on a large scale. And looking at the cabman, [MASK] perceived this clearly, because he was reasonable.

Mrs. Ramsay	Ossipon	The trade in afternoon papers was brisk, yet, in comparison with the swift, constant march of foot traffic, the effect was of indifference, of a disregarded distribution. [MASK] looked hurriedly both ways before stepping out into the cross-currents, but the Professor was already out of sight.

""	Ossipon	The collective temperament is lawless. Excellent. They may shoot us down, but—” “You are too transcendental for me,” growled [MASK], with moody concern. “Logical,” protested the other. “There are several kinds of logic.

Jim	Stevie	Positively he did not know how to speak to the lad. He watched him gesticulating and murmuring in the kitchen. [MASK] prowled round the table like an excited animal in a cage. A tentative “Hadn’t you better go to bed now?”

Watson	Ossipon	It will be a ghastly failure. He has lost the habit of consecutive thinking in prison, you know.” The Professor on his feet, now buttoning his coat, looked about him with perfect indifference. “What are you going to do?” asked [MASK] wearily.

Jane	goodness	She would pursue him shrieking till she sent every policeman within hearing in chase. And then [MASK] only knew what she would say of him. He was so frightened that for a moment the insane notion of strangling her in the dark passed through his mind.

Jennifer	Winnie	The rattle and jingle of glass went on indefinitely in front of the long Treasury building—and time itself seemed to stand still. At last [MASK] observed: “This isn’t a very good horse.” Her eyes gleamed in the shadow of the cab straight ahead, immovable.

Jim	Ossipon	First the blind, then the deaf and the dumb, then the halt and the lame—and so on. Every taint, every vice, every prejudice, every convention must meet its doom.” “And what remains?” asked [MASK] in a stifled voice.

Jim	Adolf	His voice for home use was husky and placid, but now it was heard not at all. It was not heard at supper, to which he was called by his wife in the usual brief manner: “[MASK].”

Dave	Michaelis	So much for your rotten pessimism,” he snarled at [MASK], who uncrossed his thick legs, similar to bolsters, and slid his feet abruptly under his chair in sign of exasperation. He a pessimist! Preposterous! He cried out that the charge was outrageous.

Poirot	Michaelis	The briskness of that movement contrasted with the casual way in which he threw out a suggestion. “Would you think that [MASK] had anything to do with the preparation of that bomb, for instance?” The Chief Inspector assumed a reflective manner. “I wouldn’t say so.

Jesus	Tom	She tried to talk to her saviour, to the man who was the messenger of life. “Oh, [MASK]! How could I fear to die after he was taken away from me so cruelly! How could I! How could I be such a coward!”

Dave	Stevie	What could words do to her, for good or evil in the face of her fixed idea? Her black glance followed that man who was asserting his impunity—the man who had taken poor [MASK] from home to kill him somewhere.

Jim	Stevie	Holding tight to his arm, under the appearance of leaning on it, she thought of some words suitable to the occasion. “Now, [MASK], you must look well after me at the crossings, and get first into the ’bus, like a good brother.”

Robert	Ossipon	He withdrew his arm in a natural way. “You recognised me,” she faltered out, standing before him, fairly steady on her legs. “Of course I did,” said [MASK] with perfect readiness. “I was afraid you were going to fall.

Mrs. Tilney	Verloc	I—I understand,” he floundered on, his mind speculating as to what sort of atrocities [MASK] could have practised under the sleepy, placid appearances of his married estate. It was positively awful. “I understand,” he repeated, and then by a sudden inspiration uttered an—“Unhappy woman!”

""	Karl	After the man had gone away with the money he roused himself, with an air of profound dissatisfaction. “It’s extremely unpleasant for me,” he mused. “[MASK] has been in bed with bronchitis for a week. There’s an even chance that he will never get up again.

Ponyboy	Winnie	With true greatness of soul, he only glanced at the wooden clock on the wall, and said in a perfectly calm but forcible manner: “Five and twenty minutes past eight, [MASK]. There’s no sense in going over there so late.

Ponyboy	Stevie	Is that boy hurt?” [MASK] was not hurt, he had not even fallen, but excitement as usual had robbed him of the power of connected speech. He could do no more than stammer at the window. “Too heavy. Too heavy.”

Jim	Ossipon	Blood. Death. Look at history.” “You be damned,” said [MASK], without turning his head. “Why? Let that be the hope of the weak, whose theology has invented hell for the strong.

Mrs. Danvers	Stevie	“There is no need to have the woman here all day. I shall do very well with [MASK].” She let the lonely clock on the landing count off fifteen ticks into the abyss of eternity, and asked: “Shall I put the light out?”

Jim	Michaelis	His scared eyes blazed with indignation: it would hurt terribly. His mouth dropped open. [MASK] by staring unwinkingly at the fire had regained that sentiment of isolation necessary for the continuity of his thought. His optimism had begun to flow from his lips.

Mrs. Dalloway	Tom	“But I have,” she gasped. “I have the money. I have enough money. [MASK]! Let us go from here.” “How much have you got?” he inquired, without stirring to her tug; for he was a cautious man.

God	Michaelis	With the annihilation of all capital they would vanish too; but universal ruin (providing it was universal, as it was revealed to [MASK]) would leave the social values untouched. The disappearance of the last piece of money could not affect people of position.

Jim	Stevie	She had battled for him—even against herself. His loss had the bitterness of defeat, with the anguish of a baffled passion. It was not an ordinary stroke of death. Moreover, it was not death that took [MASK] from her.

Mr. Pickwick	Ossipon	“It’s a principle.” “And you think it’s sound?” The large round spectacles, which gave a look of staring self-confidence to the sallow face, confronted [MASK] like sleepless, unwinking orbs flashing a cold fire. “Perfectly.

Jim	Ossipon	“They know me, but I know also every one of them. They won’t come near me—not they.” His thin livid lips snapped together firmly. [MASK] began to argue. “But they could send someone—rig a plant on you.

Harry	Ossipon	You can’t expect a detonator to be absolutely fool-proof.” He beckoned to a waiter. [MASK] sat rigid, with the abstracted gaze of mental travail. After the man had gone away with the money he roused himself, with an air of profound dissatisfaction.

Mrs. Ramsay	Winnie	He did not attempt to pick up his outer garment. Without a word [MASK] made for the shop, and shutting the door after her, walked in behind the counter. She did not look overtly at the customer till she had established herself comfortably on the chair.

Pip	Ossipon	The ghost of a sickly smile altered the set of [MASK]’s thick lips at the thought of the walls nodding, of people running for life at the sight of those spectacles. If they had only known! What a panic! He murmured interrogatively: “Been sitting long here?”

Ponyboy	Stevie	That little word contained all his sense of indignation and horror at one sort of wretchedness having to feed upon the anguish of the other—at the poor cabman beating the poor horse in the name, as it were, of his poor kids at home. And [MASK] knew what it was to be beaten.

Mary	Ossipon	For a moment longer the man and the woman inside stood motionless, panting, breast to breast; then her fingers came unlocked, her arms fell by her side slowly. [MASK] leaned against the counter. The robust anarchist wanted support badly. This was awful.

Mr. Porter	Toodles	“He’s sometimes put into a sardine box,” chuckled [MASK], whose erudition on the subject of the fishing industry was fresh and, in comparison with his ignorance of all other industrial matters, immense. “There are sardine canneries on the Spanish coast which—”

Jim	Ossipon	“Yes. He’s the person. You can’t say that in this case I was giving my stuff to the first fool that came along. He was a prominent member of the group as far as I understand.” “Yes,” said [MASK].

""	Ossipon	It was ingenious—a combination of time and shock. I explained the system to him. It was a thin tube of tin enclosing a—” [MASK]’s attention had wandered. “What do you think has happened?” he interrupted. “Can’t tell.

Jonathan	Ossipon	Indeed, thought [MASK], in astonishment, it seemed almost certain that he did! Poor beggar! It struck him as very possible that of that household of two it wasn’t precisely the man who was the devil.

Jim	Ossipon	I’ve the grit to work alone, quite alone, absolutely alone. I’ve worked alone for years.” [MASK]’s face had turned dusky red. “At the perfect detonator—eh?” he sneered, very low. “Yes,” retorted the other.

Pip	Ossipon	you describe the person you gave the stuff to?” The other turned his spectacles upon [MASK] like a pair of searchlights. “Describe him,” he repeated slowly. “I don’t think there can be the slightest objection now.

Mrs. Dalloway	Stevie	It rolled too, however. But on the bridge there was a commotion. [MASK] suddenly proceeded to get down from the box. There were shouts on the pavement, people ran forward, the driver pulled up, whispering curses of indignation and astonishment.

Mr. Boffin	Heat	In order to raise his drooping glance to the speaker’s face, the Personage on the hearthrug had gradually tilted his head farther back, which gave him an aspect of extraordinary haughtiness. “Why not leave it to [MASK]?” “Because he is an old departmental hand.

Jim	Tom	Am I hard? I suppose the cup of horrors was not full enough for such as me. Then when you came. . . . ” She paused. Then in a gust of confidence and gratitude, “I will live all my days for you, [MASK]!”

Winston	Stevie	The sheet of paper covered with circles dropped out of his fingers, and he remained staring at the old terrorist, as if rooted suddenly to the spot by his morbid horror and dread of physical pain. [MASK] knew very well that hot iron applied to one’s skin hurt very much.

Harry	Ossipon	I am trying to invent a detonator that would adjust itself to all conditions of action, and even to unexpected changes of conditions. A variable and yet perfectly precise mechanism. A really intelligent detonator.” “Twenty seconds,” muttered [MASK] again. “Ough!

Harry	Ossipon	They know where every one of you slept last night. Perhaps if you asked them they would consent to publish some sort of official statement.” “No doubt they are aware well enough that we had nothing to do with this,” mumbled [MASK] bitterly.

Jim	Stevie	But as a means of livelihood it was by itself insufficient. He took the cash-box out of the drawer, and turning to leave the shop, became aware that [MASK] was still downstairs. What on earth is he doing there?

Ponyboy	Ossipon	“All right. I won’t,” assented [MASK] tenderly. And he meant it too, not because he was touched by the pathos of the pleading voice, but because he felt himself losing his footing in the depths of this tenebrous affair. Police!

Winston	Ossipon	You couldn’t find anything half so precise to define the nature of your activity with all your committees and delegations. It is I who am the true propagandist.” “We won’t discuss that point,” said [MASK], with an air of rising above personal considerations.

Mrs. Dalloway	Stevie	Her mother had always leaned on her for support. No consolation or advice could be expected there. Now that [MASK] was dead the bond seemed to be broken. She could not face the old woman with the horrible tale. Moreover, it was too far.

Mrs. Dalloway	Yundt	Jolly lucky for [MASK] that she had persisted in coming up time after time, or else there would have been no one now to help him out of the ’bus by the Green Park railings, where that spectre took its constitutional crawl every fine morning.

Moran	Verloc	This could not last. “Rotten weather,” he growled savagely. “Mild,” said the Assistant Commissioner without passion. He remained silent for a little while. “We’ve got hold of a man called [MASK],” he announced casually.

Mrs. Bates	Winnie	Then he murmured a few ominous generalities on the theme of necessity. “Will have to,” repeated [MASK], sitting calmly back, with folded arms, opposite her husband. “I should like to know who’s to make you. You ain’t a slave.

Jim	Ossipon	she sobbed out. “Go over into the other corner of the carriage, away from the platform,” said [MASK] solicitously. She let her saviour settle her comfortably, and he watched the coming on of another crisis of weeping, still more violent than the first.

Jane	Stevie	[MASK] did not even mutter to himself, but with the special sense of sisterly devotion developed in her earliest infancy, she felt that the boy was very much excited indeed. Holding tight to his arm, under the appearance of leaning on it, she thought of some words suitable to the occasion.

Dave	Michaelis	[MASK] gave no sign of having heard anything. His lips seemed glued together for good; not a quiver passed over his heavy cheeks. With troubled eyes he looked for his round, hard hat, and put it on his round head.

Joe	Ossipon	You are the worthy delegates for revolutionary propaganda, but the trouble is not only that you are as unable to think independently as any respectable grocer or journalist of them all, but that you have no character whatever.” [MASK] could not restrain a start of indignation.

Raskolnikov	Ossipon	It was so expressive that little movement of that right hand which had struck the deadly blow into a man’s heart less than an hour before that [MASK] could not repress a shudder. He exaggerated it then purposely, and muttered: “I am cold.

Harry	Ossipon	“Far from it,” confessed the other, with a reluctance which seemed to twist his mouth dolorously. “A full twenty seconds must elapse from the moment I press the ball till the explosion takes place.” “Phew!” whistled [MASK], completely appalled.

Mrs. Dalloway	Ossipon	“My absolute rule is never to refuse anybody—as long as I have a pinch by me,” answered the little man with decision. “That’s a principle?” commented [MASK]. “It’s a principle.” “And you think it’s sound?”

Mrs. Ramsay	Winnie	He laid his hand on her shoulder, saying: “Don’t be a fool, [MASK].” She gave no sign. It was impossible to talk to any purpose with a woman whose face one cannot see.

Jim	Toodles	[MASK] was revolutionary only in politics; his social beliefs and personal feelings he wished to preserve unchanged through all the years allotted to him on this earth which, upon the whole, he believed to be a nice place to live on. He stood aside.

Mrs. Ramsay	Verloc	And madness and despair are a force. And force is a crime in the eyes of the fools, the weak and the silly who rule the roost. You are mediocre. [MASK], whose affair the police has managed to smother so nicely, was mediocre.

Mrs. Dalloway	Ossipon	I shouldn’t wonder if it weren’t one of your detonators that made a clean sweep of the man in the park.” A shade of vexation darkened the determined sallow face confronting [MASK]. “My difficulty consists precisely in experimenting practically with the various kinds.

Poirot	Toodles	“At the Explorers, I should say,” dropped the Assistant Commissioner calmly. At the name of that extremely exclusive club [MASK] looked scared, and stopped short. “Nonsense,” he protested, but in an awe-struck tone. “What do you mean?

Michael Barrett	Michaelis	Three ring-leaders got hanged. [MASK], young and slim, locksmith by trade, and great frequenter of evening schools, did not even know that anybody had been killed, his part with a few others being to force open the door at the back of the special conveyance.

Ponyboy	Stevie	The poor boy was excited, of course. After once more assuring the old woman on the threshold that she would know how to guard against the risk of [MASK] losing himself for very long on his pilgrimages of filial piety, she took her brother’s arm to walk away.

Ponyboy	Ossipon	He rose. “Stay,” said [MASK] hurriedly. “Here, what do you know of madness and despair?” The Professor passed the tip of his tongue on his dry, thin lips, and said doctorally: “There are no such things.

Mrs. Hurtle	Stevie	’Ow’d _you_ like to sit behind this ’oss up to two o’clock in the morning p’raps?” [MASK] looked vacantly into the fierce little eyes with red-edged lids. “He ain’t lame,” pursued the other, whispering with energy.

Caesar	Caligula	More fortunate than [MASK], who wished that the Roman Senate had only one head for the better satisfaction of his cruel lust, he beheld in that one man all the forces he had set at defiance: the force of law, property, oppression, and injustice.

Atticus	Tom	She was leaning forward on her seat. “You think of everything. . . . You’ll get me off, [MASK]?” she asked in a gust of anguish, lifting her veil brusquely to look at her saviour. She had uncovered a face like adamant.

