Mrs. Wilkins	Jackson	She smelled like burnt hair-grease, hot-bodied woman, and dime-store perfume. [MASK] embraced her, holding the iron pipe clutched against her spine. She wriggled against the curve of his fat stomach and welded her rouge-greasy mouth against his dry, puckered lips.

Ponyboy	Jackson	He decided they were just meddling; he had to chance it, anyway. He walked back to meet the cops, touching his gold cross. [MASK] looked at the cops and felt the sweat dripping from his face onto his hands, running down his neck.

Ponyboy	Jackson	[MASK] stopped eating in the middle of a chew. “I got to go out and find her.” “Naw, you ain’t, unless you want to get arrested by the first cop you run into. Your boss has got a warrant out for you.”

Ponyboy	Jodie	[MASK] asked. “In case anybody looks.” “Who’s going to look?” “How the hell do 1 know? We can’t lock it.” They turned and looked up at the window of the third-story flat again.

Theresa	Imabelle	The Theresa lobby was dead at that hour save for a few working-johns who had to make eight o’clock time downtown, and were hurrying into the hotel grill for their morning grits and bacon. His landlady answered. “Is [MASK] come home?” he asked.

Ima	Jodie	If Ima told you she met somebody in my house called [MASK], she is just lying. And if you do not know by this time that 16 she is a lying bitch, you is a fool.” “That ain’t no way to talk about your sister.

Ponyboy	Jackson	He passed three patrol cars on the way. The cops gave the battered, dirty, meat-smeared, egg-stained hearse a cursory look and let it pass. No steamer trunks and dead bodies in that wreck. [MASK] didn’t even notice the patrol cars.

Ponyboy	Jodie	“Then it must be his boss’s hearse.” “That’s the way I figure it.” [MASK] laughed softly. “Let’s take the mother-raping hearse too.” “Let’s see if he left the keys in it.”

Dallas	Billie	It’s yours.” He didn’t look at the money. “Where are they, [MASK]? There isn’t much time.” “They’re in the pad. But they’ve got themselves locked in and they won’t open even for me.”

Dallas	Goldy	He was looking through the doorway into the kitchen. The only clean thing in that flat was the kitchen floor. It was still wet from a recent scrubbing. “It ain’t in there,” [MASK] said, pointing toward the trunk.

""	Jackson	He caught a four and jumped it, took down another fifty, and shot ten. “Jealous man can’t gamble, scared man can’t win,” the stick man crooned. The bettors got off [MASK] to win and bet him to lose. He 22

Darrel	Jackson	“God damn, you black son of a bitch, if you wasn’t my brother I’d kill you,” he said, twitching all over in a doped rage. [MASK] took a new grip on his length of iron pipe, crossed the sidewalk, climbed the tenement stairs back to the flat.

Mother	Goldy	[MASK]’s saintly smile went sour. “Bless you. Mother, bless you. If three little pennies is all the Lawd is worth to you, then bless you.” The woman’s dark brown skin turned purple. She dug up a dime.

Dave	Goldy	He didn’t like any part of [MASK]’s plan. Anything could go wrong. If there was a rumpus the detectives might grab him and let the real criminals go, like that phony marshal had done. Of course, these were real detectives.

Ponyboy	Jackson	The lookout searched him, took his fingernail knife and put it on the pantry shelf alongside several man-killing knives and hard-shooting pistols. “How can I hurt anybody with that?” [MASK] protested. “You can jab out their eyes.”

Daddy	Jackson	The door opened a crack, held by an iron chain. A dim droplight was burning in a squalid bedroom. [MASK] stuck his shiny black face into the crack of light. “Oh, sugar!” The chain was unhooked and the door flung open.

""	Imabelle	[MASK] could raise the money, but he hated to ask her. It meant she’d have to be dishonest. But the kind of trouble they were in now would make a rat eat red pepper. He went into the hotel lobby next door and telephoned his apartment.

Jody	Jackson	How had he found out what was in it - unless he 24 had scared her enough to make her tell? And that meant she was in trouble. What made it so bad for [MASK] was he didn’t know where to look for the marshal.

Darry	Jackson	He held his breath. “I don’t care if she does hear me, she ain’t got no place to hide.” “Shut up. Other people are in here who can hear.” [MASK] heard the footsteps as they started to ascend the stairs.

Dave	Reverend	He crossed himself, then shook the dice to get them hot. “Turn ’em loose, [MASK],” the stick man said. “They ain’t titties and you ain’t no baby. Let ’em run wild in the big corral.”

Jesse	Morgan	[MASK] said he could have financed it through his bank - he told me this straight to my face - but he didn’t want the white folks to get control of it and take all the profits. So he decided to organize a corporation and sell stock just to colored folks.

Dave	Jackson	You’d better let me go along with you until you see a policeman.” He turned and called to the bartender. “How much do I owe?” “Let me buy you a drink before we leave,” [MASK] said.

Mary	Imabelle	“He said you knew him.” “What did he do with [MASK]?” “He took her to jail, that’s what. And he confiscated her trunk and took that along in case he didn’t find you.” “Her trunk?”

Ponyboy	Jackson	Suddenly a Judas window opened in the black door. [MASK]’s heart tried to fly out of his mouth. Then he found himself looking directly into an eye staring from the Judas window. He couldn’t see the eye well enough to recognize it, but it seemed to speak to him.

Dally	Hank	If the cops find him here they’re on our trail like white on rice.” “If it was up to me, I’d leave him lay, and frig the cops. We’re lamming, ain’t we?” [MASK] went back and opened the double-doors of the hearse.

Darl	Jackson	[MASK] puffed up with indignation. “Do you think she’d let them cheat me if she didn’t believe it, too?” “What’d she do when the stove blew up? She try to help you save your money?” “She tried all she could.

Mrs. Phelps	Imabelle	“You know where she might be?” “Do I know where who might be?” “[MASK]?” “Oh, her? How do 1 know if you do not know? You are the one who is keeping her.”

Ponyboy	Goldy	“Leave us take the trunk on home and come back for her.” “I can’t leave her here. You know that. It was her I came after in the first place.” [MASK] began losing his patience. “Man, let’s go.

Eoin	Jackson	“Let him go. Come here and help block this entrance.” He Eointed to the passage through which [MASK] had escaped. “We ave a man cornered back there somewhere and he might try to come through here.” “Yes, sir.”

Sister	Jack	[MASK]?” “Pitching what?” “The Blow.” “Naw, Sister, that’s for the sticks." Some knew him as a man, others thought he was a hophead Sister. It didn’t make any difference to them either way.

Jim	Imabelle	“Looks like 1 ain’t got long to stay here.” He was hugging the dresses as though [MASK] were inside them, just able to see over the top of the pile, when he passed underneath the dim light in the ground-floor hall and came to the outside doorway.

Jane	Billie	“Then [MASK] knows about their gold-mine pitch?” “1 don’t think so.” “Woman, there are a thousand questions you’re going to have to answer,” he said as he shifted into gear and got the car to moving again.

Mary	Teena	The radio dial lit up. All five girls in the big room looked at it covertly. Then [MASK] got up and excused herself. “I’ve got to go wee-wee.” “You’re getting kind of old for that, ain’t you?”

Tom	Goldy	“1 is.” [MASK] grinned, showing his two gold teeth. “That’s how I found out where you is at. I trailed you.” “Well, how ’bout that! Impersonating a nun. Everybody got their racket, ain’t they?”

Jim	Jackson	But the whores got there first, pressing their wares so hard against [MASK] he couldn’t tell whether they were soliciting or trying to dispose of surplus merchandise. The pickpockets were trying to break through. The muggers waited at the door. Everyone else watched him, curious and attentive.

Ponyboy	Jackson	“Come on back to my room where we can talk.” “Talk? What for?” “Be quiet, man.” They groped through the black dark like two ghosts, invisible to each other. [MASK] begrudged every second wasted.

Ponyboy	Jackson	Colored people passed along the dark sidewalks, slinking cautiously past the dark, dangerous doorways, heads bowed, every mother’s child of them looking as though they had trouble. Colored folks and trouble, [MASK] thought, like two mules hitched to the same wagon.

Ponyboy	Jackson	b When [MASK] woke up he found himself lying on the couch covered with the two dirty blankets. His joints were stiff as rigor mortis and his head ached like a jack hammer was drilling in his skull. The dim light burnt his eyes like pepper and his mouth was cotton-dry.

Mary	Imabelle	The patrol cops turned [MASK] over to the desk sergeant to be held until the cut man came to prefer charges. “You mean I’ve got to stay here until—” “Shut up and sit down.” The desk sergeant cut her off in a bored voice.

Ponyboy	Lawrence	[MASK] rubbed his chin angrily, trying to get the picture into focus. His eyes seemed out of focus too. “Just where did you fit into their plans?” “They were going to take me with them.

Ed	Jackson	[MASK] threw more natural sevens and elevens than had ever been seen in that game before. But he threw more craps, twos, threes and twelves, than he did natural sevens and elevens. And as all good crapshooters know, crapping is the way you lose.

Dally	Jackson	“You reckon [MASK]’s in it too?” “Got to be, I figure. It’s his hearse.” “You reckon they’re still upstairs?” “We’re going to see right soon.” They turned, crossed the sidewalk, and entered the hall.

Ponyboy	Jackson	He heard the motor purr and the car move. It turned comer after corner. He tried to estimate their direction, but they turned so many comers he became confused. Half an hour later the car slowed down and stopped. [MASK] had no idea where he was.

Ponyboy	Jackson	“See them whores, they’re looking for a trick. See them muggers ganged around the door, they looking for a drunk to roll. These jokers in here are just waiting for a man to flash his money.” “Seems like I’ve seen you before,” [MASK] said.

Dave	Jodie	[MASK] sat on a campstool beside the back door, dressed in high laced boots and dungarees. His straightened hair was gray with dust. All he needed was a scabby burro to give the illusion of coming down a mountain trail loaded with gold nuggets.

Jimmy	Goldy	“1 lost it playing the numbers and shooting dice trying to get even.” [MASK] pulled up the hem of his skirt and studied his fat black legs encased in black cotton stockings. “For a man what calls himself a Christian, you’ve had yourself a night.

""	Imabelle	[MASK] could take care of herself. But time was pressing him. While trying to decide whether to wait there or go out and look for her, he heard the front door being unlocked. Someone entered the front hall, closed and locked the door. Footsteps approached.

Ponyboy	Goldy	“Robbed of what?” [MASK] asked. “He say they got a trunk full of gold ore, whatever that is. He said it was taken from the lost mine, as if anybody’d believe that shit.” “Do they keep it at their headquarters?”

Murphy	Goldy	The lieutenant in charge glanced out briefly from the precinct captain’s office behind the desk, but everything was quiet. [MASK] slipped unobtrusively into the room and stood just inside the doorway, stopping all the bail bondsmen who passed him with a jangle of his collection box.

Jim	Goldy	All he said to me was they had samples at headquarters to exhibit but if anybody had enough money to invest, they’d show ’em a whole trunk full of pure gold ore.” [MASK] sighed so softly it sounded as though he were crying to himself.

Ponyboy	Jackson	[MASK] could hear each footstep touching lightly on the wooden floor. He held his breath. “I don’t care if she does hear me, she ain’t got no place to hide.” “Shut up. Other people are in here who can hear.”

Joe	Jackson	“But my woman’s not at home right now.” The man gave [MASK] a poker-faced look. He’d gotten a tip from one of the cheap hustlers he employed as lookouts that a square loaded with a big roll was in the joint.

Bob	Jackson	[MASK] began fumbling in his coat pockets, going from one to another. “Ah got it right heah.” A police sergeant shouted to the cop. “What are you doing with that man?” “Just questioning him.”

Ponyboy	Jackson	“You want to roll ’em or roll with ’em?” the lookout asked. “Roll ’em,” [MASK] said. The lookout searched him, took his fingernail knife and put it on the pantry shelf alongside several man-killing knives and hard-shooting pistols.

Mrs. Pettigrew	Imabelle	What he put into the oven were just plain dummies along with a black-powder bomb. He put your money into a special pocket in the front of his coat.” “Then [MASK] got fooled, too. She was watching him, just the same as me.

Ponyboy	Jackson	Two white cops strolled in lazily, as though they had smelled the fight, and took the battlers away. [MASK] thought it might be safe then to flash his roll. He took out the phony bills, carefully peeled off a ten, threw it onto the bar.

Mrs. O'Connor	Goldy	Four cops hit the pavement running, but the cops questioning the occupants of the taxi waved them off. They turned, undecided, ran back to their patrol cars, roared off toward the dark parking lot beside the Polo Grounds. “Where are you folks going?” the cop asked [MASK].

Jim	Brother	The diamond on his third finger sparkled in the light. “Woman?” he asked softly. “No, sir. My woman’s true. We’re going to get married as soon as she gets her divorce.” “Don’t wait too long, [MASK].

""	Jackson	[MASK] breathed softly, listening to the steps going higher and 110 higher, becoming fainter. He gripped the door-knob, pulled it inward with all his strength, turned it slowly so as not to make a sound, and opened the door a crack with infinite caution.

Dallas	Sister	“If that’s what you’re goin’ to buy with the money, [MASK], here’s a half a dollar,” a colored woman said. There were more bars on his itinerary than on any other comparable distance on earth.

Dave	Goldy	“Yes sir. Pure eighteen-carat gold ore. But it didn’t belong to her. It belonged to her husband and she had to give it back. So I had to get my brother, [MASK], to help me find them.”

Ponyboy	Jackson	[MASK] turned his back to the trunk, took the bottom corners in each hand, let the weight rest on his back, led down the steep stairs, his legs buckling at every step. He had sweated through the back of his coat by the time they came out onto the sidewalk.

Dave	Jackson	Afterwards he tore up a carton and gave [MASK] a piece.of cardboard to help fan the smoke from the room, bellyaching the while, “Here I is, putting myself out to help you just because you is my brother, and there you is, trying to kill me first thing.”

Jim	Goldy	“Yas’m, four and twenty olders. Which one of them olders going to get here first, you reckon?” “Four of the elders will lead the twenty,” [MASK] said. “Yas’m.” The driver resolved to put five bucks on fou.

Dave	Goldy	I feel like I’m just two feet away from jail as it is.” [MASK] got up to unlock the door, shoulders twitching from the gage. “Aw, God damn it, set down and cool off,” he muttered.

Jim	Jackson	The muggers waited at the door. Everyone else watched him, curious and attentive. “That’s my money,” a big whiskey-headed ex-pug shouted, pushing through the crowd toward [MASK]. “That mother— has done picked my pocket.”

Dave	Gus	“Well, coppers, here we go,” [MASK] said. He led them down a narrow dark alleyway beside the abandoned Heaven to a small wooden shack on the bank of the river. It was painted a dark, dull green but looked black at night.

Hank	Slim	Why?” “I’d taken the trunk full of gold ore they used to work their lost-gold-mine racket with.” “You mean the fool’s gold that was found in the coalbin where you and [MASK] lived?” “Yes sir.”

Mrs. Poyser	Goldy	“Stuff that was given to her when she got married.” “Copper pots! Pans and bowls!” [MASK] looked at him incredulously. “You want me to believe that her and that slim man has gone off somewhere to cook?”

Dave	Hank	He could have passed for a dining-car waiter, a job at which he’d been employed for four years. [MASK] wore a dark brown overcoat, brown hat, and a blue suit. He had his hat pulled low over his eyes and both hands dug into his overcoat pockets.

Ponyboy	Jackson	“You wouldn’t even trust our mama, would you?” he said, taking a swallow to show it wasn’t doped. [MASK] took a drink and grimaced. “Do you make this stuff yourself ?” “Man, quit beefing.

Dally	Goldy	“I’m going to leave the motor running,” he said. “What for? You want to get it stolen?” “Nobody’d steal a hearse.” “What you talking about? These folks over here’ll steal a blind man’s eyes.” [MASK] alighted to the sidewalk noiselessly.

""	Jackson	[MASK] let himself out silently and went down the stairs to the marshal’s car. He palmed two of the hundred-dollar bundles and slipped them through the open window to the marshal. The marshal held them down between his legs while he counted them.

""	Imabelle	The whine of an ambulance sounded from the distance. “Here comes the ambulance now,” the colored detective said. “Why they going to take me in when 1 haven’t done anything?” [MASK] appealed to him. He looked at her sympathetically.

Mrs. Dalloway	Hank	[MASK] went back and picked up the white bonnet and gray wig and stuck it back on the head. Then he pulled down some of the black bunting and artificial wreaths to cover the head before shutting the door. “What you doing that for?”

Mrs. Wilson	Imabelle	He looked around. The only other occupants were two white women of middle age, who were cowering in a far comer. “Are you the woman who’s having trouble with that man?” he asked [MASK], trying to trick a confession from her.

Ponyboy	Hank	“Listen to him,” [MASK] said. “I got a hideout can’t nobody find. Listen, 1 can take care of you-all. I can cover with the cops. 1 got ins at the precinct. You know my secret now.

Ponyboy	Jackson	“I got to go out and find her.” “Naw, you ain’t, unless you want to get arrested by the first cop you run into. Your boss has got a warrant out for you.” Sweat started forming on [MASK]’s face.

Mrs. Phelan	Imabelle	He wore a white patch of bandage beneath his [>ushed-back hat and an expression of unadulterated danger. He ooked at [MASK] casually, then did a double-take, recognizing her. He walked slowly across the room and looked down at her.

Jim	Jackson	[MASK] asked wiping the sweat from his head and face and pulling down the crotch of his pants. “No, she is not. Why did not you telephone?” “I didn’t know y’all had a telephone. When’d y’all get it?”

Dave	Goldy	[MASK] drew his revolver halfway out. It was all he could do to stop himself. “God damn, you black son of a bitch, if you wasn’t my brother I’d kill you,” he said, twitching all over in a doped rage.

Mrs. Bates	Imabelle	“But at least they’re quiet.” They rode in a push-button elevator to the sixth floor, and turned toward the jade-green door at the left of a square hall. “! beg you,” [MASK] pleaded, trembling.

Jim	Jackson	“In jail? How come?” “Right after you phoned here last night a United States marshal brought her back here under arrest. He was looking for you too, [MASK], and if I’d knowed where you was I’d have told him.

Ponyboy	Goldy	It was snowing slightly when they got outside. The white snowflakes turned a dirty gray when they hit the black street. “We got to get some way to move her trunk,” [MASK] said. A black cat slunk from beneath a wet crate filled with garbage.

Dave	Goldy	You know that as well as me, honey.” “What a square,” [MASK] muttered to himself. A lock was turned, then another, then a bolt was slipped back. The door opened a crack, held by an iron chain.

Ponyboy	Jackson	“Yes, sir,” [MASK] said meekly. “1 was just getting ready to see what you wanted me to do.” “We still have to get inside the joint.” “Yes, sir.”

Ponyboy	Goldy	Others had added to it. Now it was a mural. It was a long hall, diminishing into shadow. At the far end stairs climbed steeply into pitch darkness. [MASK] led the way, tiptoeing, the hem of his long black gown sweeping the dirty floor.

Ponyboy	Jackson	[MASK] gave a start. “Looking for something?” “See them whores, they’re looking for a trick. See them muggers ganged around the door, they looking for a drunk to roll. These jokers in here are just waiting for a man to flash his money.”

""	Jackson	“No, sir. Is there any kind of way I can help you, sir?” “No, God damn it, just don’t move. You’re under arrest.” “Yes, sir.” 1 might have known it, [MASK] was thinking.

Ponyboy	Goldy	He was shaking too. “Lying mother—,” he said in a voice of rage. [MASK] realized instantly his mistake. Somebody had had to help him bring down the trunk, it was too heavy to handle alone.

Mattie	Goldy	“Nobody can choose their time to go to the first death,” [MASK] replied. “They go when the wagon of the Lord calls for them, early or late.” The cop smiled. “We all got to go when the wagon comes.

Tom	Slim	Already people were collecting, emerging from the darkness like half-dressed phantoms. The taxi started up again. The driver eased it cautiously past the patrol cars. “Mother-raper, step on it!” [MASK] snarled.

The Bible	Revelation	He jangled his coin box and murmured in his husky, prayerful voice, “Give to the Lord. Give to the poor.” Whenever anyone looked at him suspiciously he quoted from [MASK], “ ‘That ye may eat the flesh of kings.’ ”

Dallas	Jodie	If I had met that man, he would still be here, chained to the floor, working his ass off every day.” “I ain’t in no mood for joking.” “Do you think 1 am joking?” “I mean the other one - [MASK].

Jim	Goldy	“Is it true?” [MASK] nodded slowly. “It’s true.” “How much?” “Enough for everybody.” “What do you want me to do?” “Just play dead until after I have got it.”

Porter	Jackson	“Watch out!” he shouted. “Can’t trust no fat man!” [MASK], the porter, and the third colored man stepped back from the hearse in unison as though they had suddenly looked upon the naked face of the devil.

Ponyboy	Jackson	“Looks like it. They say a rich man can’t sleep, but a broke man can’t get enough to eat.” [MASK] looked up at the clock on the wall and the clock said hurry-hurry.

Dallas	Goldy	And they’d figure he’d cut [MASK]’s throat. And they’d bum his black ass to a cinder. “I’ve seen the order,” he said, inching toward the sidewalk. “It was on the front seat, but I didn’t know who it was for.”

Jim	Jackson	She couldn’t have had any clothes in there worth taking, not after living with a low-paid flunky like his twin brother. His huge black-pupiled eyes lingered trance-like on [MASK]’s wet, worried face.

Mrs. Dalloway	Imabelle	“I don’t suppose there’s any need of asking, but it’s a matter of form. You don’t want to prefer charges against her, do you?” “Prefer charges against her? Against [MASK]?

