Ponyboy	Julien	From a point in the past that went as far back as he could remember, [MASK] had always known that most of what he could learn at school was not worth the trouble. He lived for other information, the lessons he taught himself.

Mrs. Ramsay	Maggy	A fury to know more about [MASK] stirred in him, as she seemed to engrave a pattern on the air with a gesture of her eloquent hands. "And where is this famous chicken hash?” she suddenly asked him. "And why is my glass empty?

Ponyboy	Mistral	Your shirt’s all wet,” she grumbled. "I think we both look .. . clean,” [MASK] said, leading the way to the front door of the public baths. "As long as you’re clean, the rest isn’t important.”

Daisy	Mistral	portant as her life grew more crowded and self-centered. It was only because she would be in the presence of [MASK] so soon, that now they were filling her mind again. Yet, had this entire trip not been a kind of search?

Jim	Eric	But there is something more than that. I forgave him because he was a man and I too am a man—merely a man—not his judge.” As he spoke this last word, [MASK] walked into the library and stood, listening to them.

Mrs. Ramsay	Maggy	[MASK] had been so skillfully painted that only little by little did everyone realize that, except for a wisp of chiffon, she was utterly naked, a realization that only added to the roar of approbation. "What on earth is that?"

Jane	Teddy	He continued to scrutinize her as she took off her hat with care and pushed her fingers artfully through her hair, redistributing the carefully set waves until the lamplight dodged through its bewilderment of reds. [MASK] sipped her Scotch, which would always taste like danger, and returned his steady gaze.

Ponyboy	Maggy	Her eyes, a delicate, clear, smoke gray, were endless in their depth. She looked straight at [MASK] with shocking clarity for such a young being. She blinked twice under her carrot fluff and when nothing happened she made a small but distinctly hungry noise.

Bob	Mistral	"Did they go into the studio?” "They went everywhere, there wasn’t a door they didn’t open . . .” [MASK] ran to the studio and examined it quickly. He came out screaming, " Where are my sheets?”

Jim	Mistral	It only looks easy. If you practiced for a few more weeks you could be on my team. There’s a tournament the lsfst Saturday in November.” [MASK] threw his arm around the young farmer’s shoulders and ordered a round of drinks for everyone in the cafe.

Daisy	Maggy	[MASK] questioned none of his careless convictions. She offered herself to him on every level with simple generosity, as if she were a field filled with tall, blowing flowers, that grew only to be gathered at his pleasure.

Mrs. Ramsay	Fauve	She scribbled numbers on her pad while she tried not to reflect on the conversation she had had this morning with her lawyer. She had gone back to him in one last effort to persuade him to make a further investigation of the life of that whore, [MASK]’s mother.

Ponyboy	Fauve	And didn’t I go to that old aqueduct and listen to all your explanations?” "And I thought you were really interested.” "I was, I was incredibly fascinated. Roman water systems have a mysterious allure all their own,” [MASK] drawled provokingly.

Jim	Darcy	As [MASK] stood immobile, frozen, unable to look away from the pictures, he caught words rising from the talk in the room. There was a delighted, high-pitched, scarcely repressed excitement in the babble that greets any out-and-out scandal.

Jane	Nadine	"How do you feel?” she asked. "Like yesterday,” he said but his voice was a whisper and, even without touching his skin, [MASK] could feel the hectic fever that was baking him reach its hot fingers out to her.

Julia	Falk	It’s as if she’s forcing herself to work late because she feels guilty about taking so much time off, which is totally insane.” "Have you talked to her about it?” [MASK] asked. "No, I guess I just don’t want to say anything that might sound critical.

Mrs. Ramsay	Fauve	Why should [MASK] want to spend the morning shut up in a studio with you when she can be out with such an irresistible young man? I know that at her age I certainly would have preferred to flirt than paint . . . don’t be insensitive.”

""	Fauve	1 know nothing about this situation between the two of you and I do not intend to enter into it in any way. Whatever you did to make [MASK] turn against you, is done and too late to be undone.

Darcy	Eric	"Oh.” "I believe it’s what’s called a Mexican standoff,” [MASK] said tenderly, relaxing the arm that had pinioned her to the bed. "And what’s that?” "It just means that nobody has the advantage, a stalemate.”

Jim	Pops	"Don’t call me [MASK],” was the only response he’d been able to make to her shocking suggestion, he reflected, bending toward the prix-fixe menu the waiter had just placed in front of them.

Daisy	Teddy	I’ve never seen any place I like as much as this.” "But you can’t just do that!” "Why not?” [MASK]’s voice was calm yet it was filled with a kind of feverish necessity, and there was a bright flare of pink under her cheekbones.

Gerty	Avigdor	What an unpredictable affair the art market was, to be sure. [MASK] sought out the advice of a number of carefully chosen art critics, those who worked for specialized publications with readers who bought art regularly. Flatteringly, he asked for their guidance in forming his projected collection.

Mary	Maggy	She had waited until a few weeks ago to see a doctor, as if not knowing for sure would make the whole situation disappear. Yet now [MASK] was almost three months into her pregnancy as far as she and the doctor had been able to determine.

Daddy	Lord	I feel guilty enough about not letting him give me painting lessons. He hasn’t said another word about them, but when I see him at breakfast I know it’s on his mind and he’s just controlling himself. Oh, [MASK] . . .”

Robert	Mistral	She had been rejected slowly for weeks and she had refused to acknowledge what was happening. Now that she knew that [MASK] held her in less esteem than the American woman, now that she finally understood, she would never again seek the slightest gesture from him.

Mrs. Ramsay	Nadine	[MASK] wrote out the checks as quickly as she could to finish the chore, and as she wrote, she meditated on the things for which they didn’t have to pay. These bills, no matter how high, represented only a tiny percentage of the scale on which they lived.

Daisy	Kilkullen	And if he were to be honest with himself, he didn’t really blame [MASK]. If he’d had a chance at a girl like that himself, he’d have grabbed it too. Only he’d have had the common sense to make a will.

Jim	Mistral	With a grunt of need, [MASK] parted the heavy silk kimono, mad to touch the body he knew only through his eyes, mad to feel her skin, to hold her breasts in his hands, to learn the tight buds of her nipples with his fingertips.

Cecily	Fauve	At the thought of her half-sister [MASK] clenched her fists and bounded up from her bed, her gloom vanished in a rush of combat, which translated itself into the one eternal question which can make any female creature forget even such profound questions as the brevity of youth, the fleetingness of time.

Lady	Maggy	So inconsiderate? It was inexcusable. [MASK] went back to the porter. "Could you please lend me the necessary coin for the telephone? And please, could you also show me how it works?” "Sure, lady. Your first visit, right?

Mrs. Dashwood	Fauve	[MASK] quickly claimed two window seats, covered in a particularly nasty shade of moss green, while her father busied himself with the headwaiter of the dining car, buying the pink tickets that would reserve their seats at lunch.

Mary	Day	What if her booker is out to lunch? What if her booker’s sick for the week or gets another job—[MASK] would never be properly protected. It’s a crazy way to run a career. I hope you told her.”

Mrs. Ramsay	Mistral	A tear of humiliation and rage slipped out of each eye. "Now what? A striptease? Is this a whorehouse? Is that what you think I hired you for?” [MASK] shouted. "Enough, don’t bother!”

Michael	Fauve	The only sign of true winter was the bareness of the fields. The windbreak borders of cypresses were green and alert, and in the olive trees, the leaves of the trees were so much like a silver stream that [MASK] almost expected to see fish swimming in them.

Darling	Fauve	"I don’t want [MASK] mixed up with him.” "She’s just a child—she’s not old enough to 'get mixed up’ with a boy at sixteen, not seriously anyway. What harm could come of it?

Mrs. Ramsay	Mistral	That’s got to be just what she intends to do. Why else would she have taken a step that made the words of the will public? If she hadn’t sued to break the will no one would ever have known what contempt [MASK] had for her.”

Ponyboy	Mistral	Still kneeling, sitting on his heels, holding her waist in both hands, [MASK] launched himself into her body. She was so moist that he was able to advance several inches before he reached the barrier. He persisted, not understanding, and got no farther.

Mrs. Phelps	Fauve	"Again!” [MASK], who had started to doodle on the pad on her desk, slammed down her pencil with as much force as if it were the gavel of a hanging judge. "After that warning I gave her last week. Trouble again?”

Margot	Maggy	As she searched the kitchen for four intact glasses [MASK] felt a wave of heat rise from her throat to her forehead. Damn him for not telling her. That woman looked as if she had just stepped off a yacht—so that was the American he’d ditched the night of the ball.

Mary	Maggy	How could he possibly convey [MASK]’s pure essence to them? How could he ever hope to make them understand? A few of his male relatives showed themselves not unsympathetic to his problem so long as he limited it to being nuts about some girl who wasn’t his wife.

Madame	Mademoiselle	"Pack one suitcase with the baby’s things. Do you have a formula for her?” "She drinks ordinary milk, Madame, for the last two weeks. But don’t forget to warm the bottle.” "Thank you, [MASK].

Jane	Darling	"Guess,” she demanded, drawing back a little, and putting a finger over his lips. "You fired the cook?” "Be serious,” she pleaded. "[MASK], I haven’t seen you in almost two months and your letters haven’t hinted at the smallest mystery.

Jim	Fauve	"We’re waiting for the guide to show up.” "The guide? There’s nothing here to merit a guided tour—just us and the waiter—even the shops are closed till four.” "Wait,” [MASK] said in a superior voice.

Ponyboy	Fauve	You still haven’t done it and I don’t see that you have any intention of taking me there,” she said calmly, remorselessly keeping any note of reproach out of her voice. "Goddamn it, [MASK], that’s just too much!

Daisy	Paula	"How will you get an appointment?” "I’ll just go and see him. Will he be able to resist the chance to cut off this hair?” "I don’t see how he could,” [MASK] said truthfully.

Ponyboy	Fauve	He didn’t even sound surprised at the request. Maybe he gets a lot of phone calls like that.” "Hmmm . . . probably,” she said, losing interest. "[MASK], what’s wrong?” "It’s my father.”

Ponyboy	Mistral	You’ll get bread and cheese and sausage and wine and be glad for them.” "You’re not much of a host.” "I don’t entertain often,” [MASK] said, looking with irritation at the sausage he was slicing.

Mary	Maggy	There hadn’t been a model who worked for Bianchi who hadn’t fought to show that wrap and they’d all looked well in it. The test, the trial had been sidetracked and she was unimpressed. [MASK] turned in front of the desk and walked back to the foot of the staircase.

Ponyboy	Eric	"No, it didn’t have to be a dream. I could have made it happen if I’d had any sense, any foresight.” [MASK] slid out from under her arm and propped his head up on his hand and looked down at her seriously.

Tom	Kate	I’m going back to work.” [MASK] blinked with relief. "Give me half an hour—I’ll dress and pack as quickly as I can.” "No, don’t rush, no need. Stay on awhile if you like.”

Gerty	Fauve	He made no comment that day but the next day he gave her a sprig of grass in a vase to work from, and the following day he gave her an apple. "Regard! Regard, [MASK] . . . use your eyes, my little one, you must learn to see . .

Ponyboy	Ivy	We’re wasting precious time. We’re all dying to send postcards home from the Vatican.” "Oh, damn it, [MASK], go on! I’ll meet you back at the hotel. I’ve seen the Vatican.”

Mrs. Ramsay	Maggy	A child of eight won’t threaten her—think, [MASK], I’m sixty-one, she’s almost sixty, we’ve been married thirty-four years . . . you don’t imagine that she would be jealous of a little girl, do you?”

""	Fauve	but I’m not giving up. The biggest problem is the girls—they still look so shocked when I even mention it. What’s so sacred about a ball of metal anyway?” "[MASK], don’t try to change customs that are hundreds of years old.

The Agency	Lunel	Although most of them lived in private homes and all of them were booked by local agencies who kept in close contact with [MASK], there was a list without limit of things that could go wrong with young girls far from home.

Mary	Fauve	[MASK] tucked her legs under her in the lotus position for warmth and in the hope that it might lead to meditation and that meditation would stop her from thinking about food. No matter what, she didn’t intend to go poking about in the kitchen and spoil his surprise.

Ponyboy	Mistral	What would [MASK] do to her when he found out that she had sent him away? He started to pound on the door again but looked up at the sky first. It was still light, but darkness and the curfew were coming soon.

Melanie	Fauve	He reached across the seat and pulled [MASK] toward him easily in spite of her attempts at resistance, but once she was securely pinned in his arms he didn’t try to raise the chin that she held firmly tucked into her neck but instead he kissed the warm, silky top of her head.

Jane	Teddy	You could have mentioned it earlier, that’s all.” "I didn’t know earlier,” [MASK] said in a voice from a dream. "I’ll send the agency a cable so they’ll have the news before you get home.”

Mrs. Dalloway	Kate	You don’t seriously imagine that [MASK] can hold out for years and years, do you? One day soon she’ll understand how dog-in-the-manger she looks, how hopeless it is—we only have to endure.”

Mrs. Bates	Maggy	Normally she no longer concerned herself with this sort of decision. She had twenty-two employees and among them there were six who could have settled the matter with one phone call. [MASK] knew, of course, that she was being overprotective, but these pictures were crucial.

Renoir	Mistral	I can paint, like a very much lesser [MASK], and I don’t want that! If I’m ever to do anything of my own it would be fatal to study with him anymore.” "Couldn’t you tell him all this and make him understand?”

Joe	Pete	somebody has to talk to her about her image problem. Nine phones are out as usual but [MASK], our semipermanent phone repair man, is on vacation and since nobody else really understands our setup, we’re just lucky it’s Friday.

Mrs. Dalloway	Nadine	Still, it gave her a chance to relax for the first time since the death. It was this business of the tax man that really irked her, [MASK] thought. It was unquestionably the major flaw. How dared that little functionary forbid her to open the studio?

Monsieur	Madame	The most that he could do was to divide the estate between his two children . . .” "Divide!” "[MASK], rest assured, it was not possible to divide in half, no, Article 760 of the law of Les Successions makes that plain.

Mrs. Bixby	Nadine	[MASK] hadn’t been able to simply get up and walk away from this sordid account since the man was actually in the act of applying the bleach, nor had she dared to indicate that she was outraged at being treated as a captive audience.

Mrs. Ramsay	Darcy	"I’ll order you some,” [MASK] snorted, raising his eyebrows. "Oh, no, never mind, don’t bother, I don’t really care, it was just a passing fancy.” She looked pitifully sorry for herself as she rejected the mere idea of tequila.

Mme. Lefranc	Maggy	As [MASK] searched her shoulder bag for the bottle that must be warmed, she remembered a saying that every French child repeats after two unplanned events of hazard of any kind: two bottles of spilled ink, two tumbles in the schoolyard, two splinters in the same finger. "

Jane	Teddy	[MASK] didn’t miss spending those hot summer weekends in the city, although they could have their special charm—ah, but only if you were in love and the city seemed to have been emptied just for you.

Dally	Kate	If I were you, I’d just let the whole mess alone—it’ll disappear of its own accord unless you meddle.” "You didn’t see his face, [MASK]. You didn’t hear his voice.” "Did he say anything unusual?”

Mary	Maggy	Soon [MASK] found herself in demand by the organizers of these shows who were all amateurs. She was able to run herd on the models, most of them dithering, nervous, awkward society women who had never walked on a runway before.

Melanie	Darcy	what time is it?” Her competitive spirit had begun to rise. This was hardly an appropriate moment in which to sit around lazily and sip bootleg booze, no matter how authentically French it was. [MASK] gave her a complacent, rather too lofty look.

James	Perry	A year ago you were instructing me in how to hop out of my knickers, now you want to put me in corsets! I’ll just tell [MASK] we have to stay here and to hell with his valet and his business.

Mrs. Ramsay	Teddy	He pulled the rag on which he’d wiped his hands out of his pocket. It smelled of turpentine, [MASK] had just time enough to think, before she realized that he was holding her head firmly in one big hand and wiping off her eyebrows with the other.

Mrs. O'Dair	Fauve	Probably they should just be thrown out. It would be more work than she had realized to bring any life back to these mistreated tools. Yet [MASK] found herself moving toward the sink on which stood the covered jars of turpentine and thinner.

Ponyboy	Mistral	You belong to me. I own you just as I own these paintings. I paid for them, I still have the receipted bill, they are my property. And like it or not, so are you. [MASK] put down his brushes suddenly and stood very still.

Mrs. Ramsay	Lally	She was one of those exceedingly rare short women who possess the gift of dressing in a way that made her look tall. The heart of it lay in the fact that [MASK] never perceived herself as tiny— everybody else she felt was simply too big.

Mary	Julien	She groaned and ground her teeth as he tantalized her. You’ll beg for it, he promised himself, you’ll have to beg for it, you cool American bitch, even as he felt himself growing almost unbearably excited. "[MASK] ...”

Mrs. Ramsay	Nadine	[MASK] left her desk and prowled around her salon. Why, she thought, and wondered why she even bothered to ask herself the bitter question once again, why had she ever married a poor man? Why hadn’t her mother prevented her?

Mrs. Dalloway	Maggy	However, although his discoveries filled a room they fell short of furnishing it. [MASK] picked her way toward the Victorian chair, which at least seemed to have a recognizable function, and sat in it with a sigh of pleasure. She was brimming with a mixture of curiosity and adventure.

Ponyboy	Perry	"But you’d be doing nothing. I’m totally to blame.” "I couldn’t possibly abandon you, [MASK]. How could you expect me to be so cruel?” she said with a look of compassion.

Mrs. Ramsay	Maggy	"I can manage that— shall we?” [MASK] rose, and in a reflex, kicked off her shoes. It was the first time he had held her in his arms and the eloquence of the body was never more immediate as in that moment when they touched.

her husband	Ben	Should she go into the kitchen, wherever it was, and hunt around for a teabag? No, she’d wait for [MASK] to come back. After last night, a lonely cup of tea seemed an unworthy way to begin this lovely, lazy Sunday . . .

Gerty	Julien	How long did it take him to realize that about the mother? Only months. How I loathed her, that sulky Jewish girl with nothing but a pouting mouth and a ripe body, that girl who had never understood what a genius like [MASK] needed from a woman.

Gerty	Maggy	I knew being kept would be heaven—but kept by a rich, tall, handsome, generous, crazy American!” [MASK] covered his face with a torrent of kisses. "Qa, alors, Qa c’est la vie, mon cheri—la bonne vie!"

Gerty	Eric	"Whatever you say, shepherd’s delight.” "We did rather make their day, don’t you agree?” "I didn’t think to ask, but possibly they’ve seen people kissing before.” "Oh, come on, [MASK], I see him!”

Mary	Fauve	[MASK] is gifted, enormously gifted . . . she was born to paint. She’s simply going through a moment of rebellion. Tomorrow or the next day she’ll be back at work.” He stood up and left the room without another word.

Daisy	Maggy	[MASK], still longing to return to the limousine, sat restlessly, until the waiter poured the wine. "Isn’t that a waste?” she asked. "We can’t drink the whole bottle-just look at this list—the English butler, the policeman’s hat. . .

Darry	Jerry	"It doesn’t say anywhere that we can’t split up, does it? What’s the point in all four of us going after the same things? I think [MASK] and I should take the first five and you two take the others. How about it?”

someone	Fauve	She was safe now, quite safe, she thought. There would be no more letters to worry about, no possibility of [MASK] writing to her father to tell him who had told her all that she had learned on that afternoon a year ago.

Gerty	Teddy	It was already far too late for self-preservation. "Hmmm.” [MASK] had heard this sort of declaration before, in every variety of version, but there was an enduring patience and a kind of accepting calm about his statement that was more convincing than the most passionate phrases.

Gerty	Mistral	[MASK] had become the only prize the whole wide world had to offer her. There was an insatiable, ruthless completeness about her feelings that included everything she knew about him; all the difficulties he presented; all the faults clearly observed in him; the women he had had before she met him.

Mrs. Phelps	Fauve	I figure that the day will come when she’ll figure out for herself that she just doesn’t want to work three days a week and then she’ll let me know,” [MASK] said, appraising her table and judg-ing it complete.

Daisy	Mistral	He didn’t like her because she was [MASK]’s daughter and he wouldn’t not like her for it either, but now, when it was too late, she desperately wished it hadn’t come as a surprise.

Mrs. Ramsay	Maggy	[MASK] decorated the bidet by filling it with bunches of red carnations, piled the one table high with bottles of wine and invited a hundred people. Everyone came, bringing friends, and they sat drinking and singing on the staircase until the police finally arrived.

Ponyboy	Fauve	[MASK], as all the boys in her class complained, "didn’t fight like a girl.” There wasn’t one of them she hadn’t punched out at one time or another, but still they wouldn’t leave her alone.

Dave	Nadine	"She doesn’t know what she’s talking about. Is she qualified to make a diagnosis? Just leave me alone.” "Have you been working too hard?” [MASK] asked. "Working too hard? Do you have any idea of what that means?

Melanie	Fauve	She had felt as if she were listening to an orchestra tune up, an uncoordinated assortment of sounds that promised the arrival of music. Right now, [MASK] thought, conscious that her feet were freezing, she’d settle for food and let romance go wherever it went when it wasn’t operating.

Robert	Paula	"God forbid!” "His friend then?” he asked delicately, giving the word "friend” the particular tiny nuance of pronunciation, a mere fragment of a tone that to the French indicates a sexual partner. "Certainly not,” [MASK] said protectively.

Monsieur	Fie	[MASK] paused to make sure everyone was paying close attention. "And the bed,” he continued, satisfied with his audience, "has a canopy of the same material and a headboard carved like one of the old chests in the Hotel de Ville, fit for a princess.

