Mother	Mommy	“Okay.” “Now go to sleep.” “Can I read? I’m not sleepy.” “Sure. Read your new book, hon, until you get tired.” “Thanks, [MASK].” “Good night, hon.”

Dr. Lazarus	Klein	He studied the pattern of the brain wave carefully, but discovered no dysrhythmia. No spikes. No flattened domes. And when he switched to comparison readings, the results were also negative. [MASK] frowned. He couldn’t understand it. He repeated the procedure.

Mrs. Bates	Sharon	“You can turn on TV,” [MASK] had generously told her employer on one of these occasions. “It’s fine. I can chant when there’s all kinds of noise. It won’t bother me a bit.” Now it was transcendental meditation.

Father	Karras	He was finished. They went out into the hall, where the specialist looked back at the bedroom door for a moment, and then turned to [MASK]. “What the hell’s going on in there. Father?” The Jesuit averted his face.

Mrs. Dalloway	Dyer	The rose was still there. She picked it up and pensively twisted it, rolling it back and forth by the stem. “And he never even knew her,” she murmured absently. Then she held the rose still and flicked her eyes at [MASK].

Bob	Kinderman	The narrow beam of an ancient desk lamp flared on a clutter of scattered reports. There was no other light. He believed that it helped him narrow the focus of concentration. [MASK]’s breathing labored heavy in the darkness as his glance flitted here, now there.

Mrs. Dashwood	Karras	The thought made her squint as she held his gaze. Then she dropped her eyes. “Yeah . . . yeah,” she murmured softly. “That’s a point.” The sadness and shock of [MASK]’ death settled down on her mood like a melancholy haze.

Joe	Karl	The couple had been with her for almost six years, and yet [MASK] was a mask—a talking, breathing, untranslated hieroglyph running her errands on stilted legs. Behind the mask, though, something moved; she could hear his mechanism ticking like a conscience.

Dave	Frank	“Got your tape recorder there?” asked [MASK]. It was sitting on his desk. “Yes, I do.” “Has it got a reverse-play position?” “Why?” “Has it got one?” “Just a second.”

Ponyboy	Karras	[MASK] brooded. “It’s not just flawless, Lieutenant, it’s—well, it’s got a definite style that’s very individual. It’s as if whoever did it’s used to thinking in Latin.” “Do priests?”

Jane	Regan	She nodded. “Well, I’m a hypnotist. Oh, yes! I hypnotize people all the time. That’s, of course, if they let me. Now I think if I hypnotize you, [MASK], it will help you get well.

Mother	Karras	“Boy, isn’t this beautiful,” she said wearily. “Here I am an atheist and here you are a priest and—” “The best explanation for any phenomenon,” [MASK] overrode her, “is always the simplest one available that accommodates all the facts.”

Watson	Karras	“All unconscious, of course. Yes, whatever would we do without unconsciousness? Do you see what I’m driving at, [MASK]? I cannot speak Latin at all. I read your mind. I merely plucked the responses from your head!”

Jane	Dennings	[MASK]. Her sobbing. Unreality. “All right . . . it’s all right . . . take it easy . . . it’s all right. . . .” Soon the crying subsided and he helped her sit up.

Mary	Chris	He was staring at the sculpture with a smiling fondness. “Cute. So cute,” he said. He’d leaned over and picked it up and was rubbing his thumb along its beak. [MASK] bent over to pick up a thread on the kitchen floor.

Mrs. Dalloway	Willie	That’s right. [MASK] mentioned that she’d heard her in the kitchen awfully early. I remember feeling glad that she’d gotten her appetite back. But she went back to bed then, I guess, because she stayed there the rest of the day.”

Mr. Croup	Kinderman	Not [MASK]. She was looking, instead, at a tall old man in a threadbare raincoat, his head bowed patiently in the rain. He carried a worn, old-fashioned valise. For an instant, a buckle gleamed in street-lamp glow as the bag shifted slightly in his grip.

Ponyboy	Chris	“Thanks.” She smiled wanly. “Good luck with the world.” He nodded with a gentle warmth and sadness, then waddled away. [MASK] watched as he listed toward a waiting squad car parked near the corner in front of a fire hydrant.

Dorothy	Chris	“They’ll never leave; they’re fucking plunderers,” he rasped, and gulped his gin. Yeah, he’s starting to blow, thought [MASK] and quickly changed the subject: she explained about the script and her chance to direct.

Jim	Karl	Took a transfer. Changed buses. Rode in silence until finally he debarked at a northeast tenement section of the city, where he walked to a crumbling apartment building and entered. [MASK] paused at the bottom of the gloomy staircase, smelling acrid aromas from efficiency kitchens.

Dr. Lillian Mills	Klein	“To begin with,” he told her, “it’s highly improbable that she’s faking.” [MASK] was nodding in agreement. “We think so for a number of reasons,” the psychiatrist continued.

Gerty	Karras	“For example: the devil knows everything, correct?” “No, almost everything, [MASK]—almost. You see? They keep saying that I’m proud. I am not. Now, then, what are you up to, fox?”

Jesus	Lucas	the bellowing . . . the hissing . . . the vomiting . . . the hurlings to the ground from his bed by his “demons,” who were furious because soon he would be dead and beyond their torment. And [MASK]!

Dallas	Regan	You’ve always been a loser!” [MASK] splattered him with vomit. He ignored it. “Yes, you’re very good with children!” he said, trembling. “Little girls! Well, come on! Let’s see you try something bigger!

Mrs. Dalloway	Dimmy	His mother. His mother! “You leave me to be priest, [MASK]; send me institution. . . .” Don’t look! “Now you chase me away? . . .” It’s not her! “Why you do this? . .

""	Lord	In the world there was evil. And much of the evil resulted from doubt; from an honest confusion among men of good will. Would a reasonable God refuse to end it? Not reveal Himself? Not speak? “[MASK], give us a sign. . .

""	Calso	She’d set down the glass of [MASK] and sat on the other side of the table, hands clasped before her. “One minor flaw,” he resumed apologetically. “Only minor. And please believe me, I’m only a layman. You know?

Jane	Chris	Thanks a lot.” He studied her for a moment without expression; then quickly moved away. [MASK] watched from the doorway. As he crossed the street, it occurred to her that he'd probably missed his dinner. Then briefly she worried that he might be cold.

Carrie	Regan	Something! [MASK]’s gibberish! An attempt at a language? She read on quickly. ... or manifest various parapsychic phenomena, telekinesis for example: the movement of objects without application of material force. The rappings? The flinging up and down on the bed? ...

Jim	Chris	He looked at [MASK] as he tapped his chest with the tips of his fingers. “Believe me, I’m a father, and when I see what’s going on, it breaks my heart. You’ve got children?” “Yes, one.”

Lemon Drop Kid	Karras	Appended to the latter was a note: Better you than the rats. [MASK] smiled at the signature: The Lemon Drop Kid. He put the note aside, then unfastened his wristwatch and placed it in front of him on the desk. The time was 10:58 p.m.

Mary	Chris	Impulsively, she reached up her arms to him. He leaned over and she kissed him. Then she stood for a moment, still staring at him oddly. No, not at him: at his round Roman collar. [MASK] looked away.

Daisy	Frank	It was night. Despairing, he stepped out of darkness into darkness. He crossed to the residence, groping toward sleep, but as he entered his room he looked down and saw a message slip pink on the floor. He picked it up. From [MASK].

Ponyboy	Klein	“Oh, stop him!” she wept. “Please, stop himl It hurts! Make him stop! Make him stop! I can’t breathe!” [MASK] had seen enough. He fetched his medical bag to the window and quickly began to prepare an injection.

Ponyboy	Karras	But [MASK] did not hear him or see him make the sign of the cross on him- self as the back of the bed lifted level with the front. It’s not happening! he thought, as he watched, transfixed.

Mrs. Dalloway	Regan	Cryptomnesia: buried recollections of words and data she had once been exposed to, even in infancy, perhaps. In somnambulists—and frequently in people at the point of death—the buried data often came to the surface with almost photographic fidelity. [MASK]’s recognition of him as a priest.

Mrs. Bates	Chris	From within shrieked the hoarse mad voice: “Damned Ndd-zi! Naa-zi cunt I” [MASK] looked away; then reluctantly nodded. “Go ahead. Go on in.” “You’ve got a tape recorder?” Her eyes searched his with quick movements.

Father	Dimmy	“Why you do this to me, [MASK]?” His heart froze. “Why you do this?” The priest could not move, did not breathe, did not dare to glance over to that sorrowful voice, did not dare see those eyes really there: eyes accusing, eyes lonely.

Jane	Kinderman	“What is it?” “A little talk. I need advice, nothing more, just advice.” “What about?” “In just a minute,” waved [MASK] in dismissal. “Now we’ll walk. We’ll take air.

Mrs. Robinson	Regan	No. “Were you ever a part of [MASK]?” No. “Do you like her?” No. “Dislike her?” Yes. “Do you hate her?” Yes. “Over something she’s done?” Yes.

The doctor	Dennings	While the specialist examined her, she alternately sang and made animal noises. Then [MASK] appeared. “Oh, it’s terrible,” it whined at the specialist. “Just awful! Oh, I do hope there’s something you can do! Is there something?

Mary	Regan	“I am speaking to the person inside of [MASK] now,” the psychiatrist said firmly. “If you are there, you too are hypnotized and must answer all my questions.” For a moment, he paused to allow the suggestion to enter her bloodstream.

Dave	Karras	For a hesitant moment he stood unmoving; then abruptly he went forward, stepping into the house with an odd sense of ending. [MASK] heard commotion. Upstairs. A deep, booming voice was thundering obscenities, threatening in anger, in hate, in frustration.

Father	Regan	. pinning him . . . shifting now to follow as he moved to a desk and chair near the window. “Hello, [MASK],” said the priest in a warm, friendly tone. He picked up the chair and took it over by the bed.

Mary	Regan	And yet . . . He glanced to the volume monitor on the tape recorder. Not flashing. He turned up the amplification knob and then listened, intent, ear low to [MASK]’s lips. The gibberish ceased and was replaced by breathing, raspy and deep.

Mike	Karl	The detective made no answer but continued to eye him, unblinking, and when [MASK] seemed again about to speak, the detective abruptly pushed away from the railing, moving toward the squad car with hands in his pockets.

Ponyboy	Karras	You never know; I might need it.” With an ache, [MASK] stared at the bowed, defenseless head. He yearned to take her hand and say that all would be well. But how? “Wait, I’ll get you the keys,” she said.

Bob	Dennings	Numbers of children. The cameraman, bored, picked up Daily Variety as [MASK] put the paper in his mouth and giggled, his breath reeking faintly of the morning’s first gin. “Yes, I’m terribly glad you’ve been given a script.”

Mrs. Dalloway	Willie	“You didn't maybe pick it up by mistake with the cleaning?” “It is there.” “With the cleaning?” “In the closet.” “No, it isn’t. I looked.” About to speak, [MASK] tightened her lips and scowled at the coffee.

Mrs. Dalloway	Dyer	“What do you mean?” [MASK] frowned at her earnestly. “He’d convert the astronauts. That’s it. I mean, that’s what he likes: You know, one or two people. No groups. Just a couple.”

Harry	Karras	In the middle of the year?” “That’s the Order.” [MASK] shrugged as he pulled on the pants. “Still, you’d know who was sick at the time and who wasn’t, correct? I mean, this kind of sickness.

Jim	Karras	“Do you good to get out.” “Yes, I go to see a film. A good film.” [MASK] put the car in gear and pulled away. For a time they drove in silence.

Mom	Chris	[MASK] led her to the bedroom and tucked her in. “Can I watch TV for a while till I sleep?” “Where’s your book?” “I can’t find it. Can I watch?” “Sure; okay.”

Mrs. Dalloway	Chris	Not at all.. . not at all. And [MASK]. She had seemed so uncertain about it. He walked to the window again. What’s the answer, then? Genuine possession? A demon? He looked down and shook his head. No way.

Martha	Dennings	He looked out a window at the dark of the city. The Capitol dome light glowed. The Congress was working late. He shut his eyes again, recalling his conversation with the Dis- trict pathologist at eleven-fifty-five on the night of [MASK]’ death.

""	Kinderman	One punched another one hard on the arm, and the two began wrestling amicably. “Ah, college, college . . .” breathed [MASK] ruefully, nodding as he stared. “I never went . . . but I wish ... I wish . .

Dr.Jones	Chris	Which leaves us the general field of hysteria.” “I gave last week,” [MASK] murmured bleakly. The worried psychiatrist smiled thinly. “Hysteria,” he continued, “is a form of neurosis in which emotional disturbances are converted into bodily disorders.

Jane	Regan	It was a pale-blue cotton. She’d bought it the week before, and remembered hanging it in the closet. “Funny noises,” said [MASK]. “I know. We’ve got friends.”

Murphy	Karras	It’s like law.” “Ah, I see.” [MASK] suddenly looked earnest; grave. “Look, Lieutenant, can I tell you who I really think did it?” The detective leaned closer. “No, who?” “Dominicans.

Michael	Regan	Shouts. Obscenities. And yet not in the deep, coarse voice of the demon. Raspy. Lighter. A broad British ... Yes! . . . The manifestation that had fleetingly appeared when he’d last seen [MASK].

Jim	Karras	Can’t you see the little bitch should be in hospital? She belongs in a madhouse, [MASK]! Now you know that! Really! Now let’s stop all this cunting mumbo-jumbo! If she dies, you know, it’s your fault!

Father	Damien	“Then here, take mine,” said the gray-haired Jesuit, unbuttoning the coat. “I should like you to go to the residence, [MASK], and gather up a cassock for myself, two surplices, a purple stole, some holy water and two copies of The Roman Ritual.”

Mary	Regan	[MASK] was sleeping. She returned her to her room, tucked her into her bed, then went back to her own bedroom, turned off the television set and went to sleep. The house was quiet until morning.

Ponyboy	Hope	“It’s a problem?” “No. No problem.” She sighed. “I just lost [MASK], that’s all.” “Didn’t get you.” “It’s an inside tragedy.”

Jeb	Chris	“Oh, I really don’t know all that much,” he protested. “In 7i fact, most of what I know is what I’ve heard from another Jeb.” “What's a Jeb?” [MASK] asked.

Daisy	Merrin	So far, there seem to be three.” “There is only one,” said [MASK] softly, slipping the stole around his shoulders. For a moment, he gripped it and stood unmoving as a haunted expression came into his eyes.

Mrs. Phelps	Regan	He continued. “I believe . . .” He paused. “Well, my honest opinion right now is that [MASK] can best be helped by intensive psychiatric care.” She shook her head very slowly back and forth. “Where’s her father?”

Mrs. Tuckerman	Regan	It was not quite dry and looked something like a “worry bird,” painted orange, except for the beak, which was laterally striped in green and white. A tuft of feathers was glued to the head. “Do you like it?” asked [MASK].

Randall	Merrin	“Who can know?” answered [MASK]. “Who can really hope to know?” He thought for a moment. And then prob-ingly continued: “Yet I think the demon’s target is not the possessed; it is us . . .

Jane	Chris	“I just can’t do that,” answered [MASK] in a toneless voice. “Why not?” “I just can’t!” she repeated with quavering anxiety. “I can’t have anyone else involved! She’s . . .”

Ponyboy	Klein	“What’s she saying?” [MASK] whispered. “I don’t know. Just gibberish. Nonsense syllables.” Yet his own explanation seemed to leave him unsatisfied. “She says it as if it means something, though. It's got cadence.”

Jane	Chris	“Am I in one?” [MASK] asked him earnestly as she took his hand. “Oh, my goodness, oh, no,” he said, brushing at the notion with his hand as if swatting at a fly.

The Provincial	Karras	A harried man with many appointments, the Provincial had not pressed him for the reasons for his doubt. For which [MASK] was grateful. He knew that his answers would have sounded insane: The need to rend food with the teeth and then defecate.

Mrs. Phelan	MacNeil	He ran back through the symptoms, touching each like a boy going back to touch slats on a white picket fence. Which one had he missed? he wondered. Which? The answer, he concluded wearily, was None. He returned the journal to the desk. He walked back to the [MASK] house.

Mary	Chris	Not fully explained? [MASK] frowned. She’d had a different impression from the doctors. What is known is the following: that various people, at various times, have undergone massive transformations so complete that those around them feel they are dealing with another person.

Jim	Regan	If discovery that speech patterns of [MASK] and the “demon” were the same ruled out possession even with paranormal occurrences, then certainly . . . Sure . . . strong difference in the patterns should mean that there probably is possession! He paced. What else?

Roger	Chris	“A shame. What a shame,” the detective breathed with lowered eyes and a shake of the head. “Was he killed?” [MASK] asked with a look of shock. “I mean, is that why you’re here? He was killed?

Bob	Karras	Powerful leg muscles blooded and stinging, rippling with a long and leonine grace, [MASK] thumped around a turn when he noticed someone sitting on a bench to the side where he’d laid out his towel, sweater and pants: a middle-aged man in a floppy overcoat and pulpy, crushed felt hat.

Daisy	Rags	“I will ” “Where’s [MASK]?” “Downstairs.” “You know, maybe you should start to keep your typewriter there; don’t you think? I mean, that way you can watch her when you’re typing. Okay?

The demon	Stumblings	As she set the vodka and tonic on the bar, both the women glanced up at the ceiling. [MASK]. Sharp bumps against furniture. Walls. Then the voice of ... the demon? The demon. Obscenities. But another voice.

Mrs. Baylock	Karras	“Incidentally, what an excellent day for an exorcism, [MASK].” The book! She must have read that in the book! The sardonic eyes were staring piercingly. “Do begin it soon. Very soon.”

Murphy	Karras	“Now what can I do for you?” “Walk a little slower, please. Emphysema.” The detective was gesturing at his throat. “Oh, I’m sorry.” [MASK] slowed his pace. “Never mind. Do you smoke?”

Mrs. Hale	Sharon	She turned away and said goodnight. She said nothing about the letter, and as she left the kitchen, she murmured, “Nam myoho renge kyo.” “Keep it up about fifteen or twenty minutes,” said [MASK]. “Maybe for you it would work.”

Mary	Sharon	Sitting at the table by the typewriter. Cranking fresh stationery into the roller. Something . . . “Pretty creepy,” [MASK] murmured, fingertips resting on the keyboard and eyes on her steno notes to the side. No answer. Uneasiness hung in the room.

Randall	Merrin	“Once the demon’s driven out,” he probed, “what’s to keep it from coming back in?” “I don’t know,” [MASK] answered. “I don’t know. And yet it never seems to happen. Never.

Mrs. Clemens	Chris	“I meet a famous motion-picture star,” he continued, “and I ask for some Calso water. Ah, boy.” [MASK] had found the bottle and now was looking for an opener. “Ice?” she asked.

Monsieur	Karras	“What brings you to the neighborhood, incidentally?” “You! I came only to invite you to the film!” “Yes, it’s easier to drive than to pick up a phone,” said [MASK] softly. The detective’s eyebrows lifted in unconvincing innocence.

Mrs. Coulter	Regan	There he stopped and looked down into hate. A smothering stillness hung over the room. Then [MASK] licked a wolfish, blackened tongue across her cracked and swollen lips. It sounded like a hand smoothing crumpled parchment. “Well, proud scum!” croaked the demon.

Ponyboy	Dyer	Boy, I really crave one,” [MASK] brooded, still prowling. “I once spent a year hearing children’s confessions, and I wound up a lemon-drop junkie. I got hooked. The little bastards keep breathing it on you along with all that pot.

Ponyboy	Chris	Or was it there?” “I think it was already there,” [MASK] answered. He considered this. Then he stood up. “Well, okay. You need the car?” “No, you keep it.” “All right, then.

Jim	Karras	She finished. Now she waited for [MASK]’ reaction. For a time he did not speak as he thought it all over. Then at last he said softly, "You don’t know that she did it.”

Jane	Karras	Later I may see about discreet introductions. In the meantime, I am suffering from a maddening itch that I cannot reach. Would you loosen one strap for a moment, [MASK]?” “No; just tell me where it itches and I’ll scratch it.”

Murphy	Chris	“It was excellent.” “Yes, I thought so too. Exceptional. Well, now ...” He turned back to [MASK] and to scribbling on the program. “I’ve wasted your time, but I have a job.” He shrugged.

Jim	Howdy	“There he is!” she had shrieked at last, pointing to the kitchen door. Then she’d fallen to the floor, her body jerking in spasms as she gasped and wept that [MASK] was kicking her.

Ponyboy	Regan	He put the side of his fist against his lips and looked down against the sadness as it welled from his throat toward the comers of his eyes. He waited. Dared not risk another glance at the sunset. He looked up at [MASK]’s window, then went back to the house.

Dave	Karras	“Probably?” “Well, I wouldn’t want to swear to it in court. In fact, I’d have to say the variance is really pretty minimal.” “Minimal . . .” [MASK] repeated dully. Well, that’s the ball game.

James	Karras	In delirium, she’d babbled a language that finally was recognized to be Syriac. [MASK] forced himself to think of the excitement it had caused, of how finally it was learned that the girl had at one time been employed in a boardinghouse where one of the lodgers was a student of theology.

Mrs. McBain	Dennings	It’s off. You can trust me. If i out with a woman not your wife on that me, I’ll have it checked out, you’ll be and your wife, she won’t know. Now were you at the time [MASK] died?”

Father Damien	Karras	[MASK] dismissed the class early and returned to his room, where immediately he hunched over his desk, palms of his hands pressed flat, and intently reexamined the Church’s position on the paranormal signs of demonic possession. Was I being too hard-nosed? he wondered.

Mrs. Bingham	Regan	The chapter on possession. Did she read it? He pored over its pages. Were there striking similarities between any of its details and [MASK]’s behavior? That might prove it. It might. He found some correlations: . . .

