Mike	Jorgensen	[MASK] whooped loudly, but nobody else laughed, and the ensign subsided, goggling around. “No, I’m serious, I would. Tell you why. Tell you how I’m warped. I’m a Jew, guess most of you know that.

Dave	Willie	If I start wrong I’m going to finish wrong.” [MASK] shrugged. “I beg your pardon for arguing with you so much, sir.” “Hell, I don’t blame you. I’d be arguing, too, if someone else was the exec.

Dave	Keefer	The magazines and paper-bound novels were racked, and the coding devices usually scattered on the table were absent. “This is known in literature,” [MASK] remarked in a low tone, stirring his coffee, “as a pregnant pause.”

Harry	Willie	I’ve shot a few sun lines, last couple of weeks, just for the fun of it.” “[MASK], you’re asking for trouble.” The exec grinned. “Don’t you have enough collateral duties?” “Oh, sure.

Ponyboy	Keefer	He tossed aside a magazine and yawned. “Guess I’d better do it before I turn in. Last month he sent for me at one o’clock in the morning and asked for it.” “Brilliant administrator, our captain,” [MASK] said as he went out.

Jim	Gorton	Let’s head for the barn.” But no exercise was scheduled for the next day, and the Caine lay alongside the dock, doing nothing. At eleven o’clock in the morning [MASK] sat at the wardroom table, sipping coffee as he worked through a basketful of correspondence.

Ponyboy	Willie	In plain fact, [MASK]’s first glimpse of combat was a disappointment. It appeared to be an unimportant night gunnery exercise on a very small scale. The night paled to blue-gray, the stars disappeared; and day was brightening over the sea when the fleet came to a halt, three miles offshore.

Daisy	Marty	“I’m not parading.” “Oh. Too bad. Well, come around tonight. Bring a friend. As my guests.” “Thank you.” “Come on, [MASK],” said the bandleader. “Have coffee with me.”

Dave	Willie	I’m sorry, but I’ve done my best. If I’m all wrong, just ignore me.” She walked quickly to her purse on a bureau, and touched a handkerchief to her eyes. [MASK] immediately came and put his arm around her shoulders.

Jim	Yep	“Oh. Pardon me. [MASK], she’s gone. Shoved off this morning.” “Where to?” “Sorry. Classified.” “Well, what do I do now?” "I don’t know. You should have caught her.”

Mrs. Hale	Maryk	However, you gentlemen are supposed to keep order on this ship and prevent such crimes as robbing of wardroom stores. You are all appointed a board of investigation as of now, with [MASK] as chairman, to find out what happened to the strawberries.”

James	Willie	He found the novelist drying himself before a mirror, standing on wooden clogs. “'Ja vous aim—uh-------’ [MASK], you old Dickens lover! How are you, my lad?” They shook hands.

Mrs. Wainwright	Maryk	“It’s up! Twenty-eight ninety-nine, almost 29.00!” “Good, maybe we’ll be through the worst of it in a while.” [MASK] stood beside the wheel, facing aft.

Mrs. Dalloway	May	After a while he went to the desk and wrote this note to [MASK]: My darling: Three months ago I wrote you a very long letter, and I have received no answer. I feel impossibly sheepish about repeating what I said, because I can hardly believe you didn’t receive it.

Billy	Maryk	Sorry I can’t accommodate you, but it’s too hot and smelly at the moment. That’s all.” [MASK] heaved his broad chest in a painful sigh. “Sir, how about one fifteen-minute shower period after the sweep-down?”

Mary	Keith	I always had figured that when my year of teaching was up I'd put in for subs. Had read up all the submarine doctrine—well. That was before I married. I studied all the ships in the fleet roster, [MASK], and put in for destroyer tender.

Harry	Grace	Too many questionable occurrences too fast. Do you think I ought to recommend to the Bureau that he be relieved?” “No, sir,” said [MASK] promptly. “In all fairness to the man, he’s done nothing that we know of definitely to warrant that.

Murphy	Keefer	There was an enormous pile-up of coding traffic. He had to keep working until lunch time, and then for an hour after that. At last it was done. He dropped the decodes on [MASK]’s cluttered desk, went aft to the clipping shack, and fell asleep instantaneously.

Kirk	Paynter	“Look, I’ll be glad to report aboard, [MASK], but I’m still attached to the officer pool here.” “No, you’re not. That’s all fixed. We’ve got a visual despatch detaching you.

Ponyboy	Keefer	With a swoop and a groan he brought his fingers squarely on his toes. Coming erect again, his spine vibrating, the room spinning, he found that [MASK], rolled over and awake, was staring at him with frightened little eyes.

Ponyboy	Willie	The words and the tone made [MASK] very sick. He stared at the saxophonist’s picture. He had rimless glasses, a flat thin stage smile, and a long nose. “He doesn’t look like much------” “He’s a prime no-good.

Ponyboy	Maryk	[MASK] tore off all his clothes and wrapped a line around his waist. “No sense fooling around with the gig. I’ll swim for the goddamn thing. Tell the captain to stop the screws,” he said to the chief, and dived over the side.

""	Willie	“That’s good.” [MASK] yawned. “I don’t know,” said the gunnery officer, “but what I’ll lay below till reveille. Think you can handle it?” “Uh-huh.” “Fine.

Bradley	Queeg	As far as my fitness report goes you’d be justified in giving me an Unsat in loyalty, on the Stilwell deal. But that’s the first and last time.” [MASK] held out his hand to the exec, who rose from his bunk and grasped it.

Ponyboy	Willie	Don’t, don't get strong and virile now. You’ll just make an ape of yourself, and anyway I can handle you with one hand tied behind me.” “I believe you,” said [MASK] furiously. “I daresay you’ve had plenty of practice.

Mrs. Ramsay	Queeg	So his reason informed him; but reason had little to do with the hours of romantic fantasy with which he doped himself to beguile the tedium and deaden the pain of [MASK]’s nagging. He knew his letters were queerly evasive and contradictory; but such as they were, he sent them off.

Judge	Blakely	[MASK] took off his glasses and closed the book. He went on in a grave, tired tone, “The court has said this is a delicate case. Defense counsel and the witness are warned that they are on the most dangerous possible ground.

the bride	Willie	Most of the tables were empty. In a corner near a window the honeymooners in the bright ski suits were leaning toward each other, the bride feeding a bit of coffee cake into her husband’s mouth. “What do I say about what, [MASK]?”

Murphy	Maryk	“No, there’s no inconsistency, it’s all how you interpret it. I don’t use fitness reports to revenge myself on officers who disagree with me, and [MASK] did know his job and—maybe I shouldn’t have said from the first.

Billy	Stilwell	He read the section on confessions aloud to the sailor. At first [MASK]’s face lit with desperate hope, but the liveliness quickly went out of his face. “What’s the use, sir? It’s too late now. I didn’t know about that book.”

Captain	Paynter	he said, not moving. “Captain, in view of the extraordinary wind conditions, how about securing the water regulations after one day instead of two? [MASK] tells me we’ve got plenty to last us until Funafuti------”

Mrs. Malloy	Willie	He glanced up at [MASK], snapped, “Don’t stand there gawking, dump ’em and run along,” and resumed the regular smothered clank of key into lock, key into lock, key into lock. The air was fetid and smoky.

Ponyboy	Willie	“How about the pulse?” “I didn’t bother. What’s the point if he’s a lordosis?” The doctor took [MASK]’s wrist. His eyes emerged in surprise from the red puffs. “Ye gods, boy—are you sick?”

Mrs. Prentiss	Willie	Magazines and books were scattered on the lounging chairs and black leather couch. [MASK] noted with horror several secret publications among comic-strip books, leg-art magazines, and frayed Esquires. Leading forward from the middle of the wardroom was a passageway of staterooms.

Mrs. Bingham	Willie	The captain turned his attention to a spread of papers on his desk, and [MASK] left. It occurred to him that his naval career had probably been saved by a doctor’s shame at keeping a patient waiting eight hours, but he rejoiced at the outcome, anyway.

Mrs. Dalloway	Shinola	He dropped back into hilarity. “Went to a concert, I swear he did. They give him a free ticket at the officers’ club. He wanted me to come. I said ‘[MASK] on that!’ ” He pinched the blonde’s arm.

Ponyboy	Maryk	He had even tried to envision [MASK]’s face on the cover of the news magazine. He had anticipated confronting an array of admirals across a green-covered table, justifying his act with quiet poise, with irrefutable facts. The memory of one daydream made him writhe.

Lieutenant Green	Willie	Sailors on nearby ships stopped working to stare at the Caine s torn-up seared deckhouse and the huge black hole amidships. [MASK] went below, discarded his wet, filthy clothes in a heap on the deck of his room, and took a steamy shower.

Ponyboy	Keefer	“Doesn’t mean much, by itself.” “Well, I’d like to hear it.” [MASK] hesitated, and spoke the words slowly. ‘‘Multitudes, Multitudes. ” “I like it.” “Recognize it?”

Ponyboy	Keggs	[MASK] was unperturbed. He moved a bishop and looked up, grinning. Then he saw the other officers getting to their feet, their faces dead blank. He uttered a strangled, sorrowful neigh and leaped up, overturning the chessboard. The chessmen bounced and clattered all over the deck.

""	Keith	“Well, you know, we instructors had a pretty good deal, [MASK]. What we put in for, we got. I always had figured that when my year of teaching was up I'd put in for subs. Had read up all the submarine doctrine—well.

Billy	Maryk	Usually there were other sailors in the wheelhouse—telephone talkers, signalmen—but they were avoiding it now as though it were the sickroom of a cancer victim. [MASK] stood with both hands clamped to the captain’s chair.

Ponyboy	Willie	A lot of marines sitting around on their duffs on the beach, eating lunch, may see us all blown sky-high. None of them will skip a bite.” “At least they’ll be eating K-rations, not ice cream with sauce,” said [MASK].

Ponyboy	Willie	“You’re not in good shape, are you?” “I’ll live,” laughed the doctor. He took [MASK]’s arm, but didn’t lean on it, merely holding it as they walked to the entrance.

Dave	Queeg	[MASK]’s head tilted sidewise; he darted a look full of suspicion at the captain. “I was using standard rudder, of course, sir. I have never exceeded standard rudder with the target, as my logs will show------” “That’s not what I mean.”

Jim	Willie	She came back in November, in time for three happy weeks with [MASK]. He performed prodigies of invention, enough for the creation of a book of short stories, to explain his absences from home to his mother.

Mike	Carmody	[MASK]’s thoroughness was explained when he mentioned that he was an Annapolis man, class of ’43, the only regular officer aboard beside the captain and exec. He had narrow shoulders, pinched cheeks, small foxy eyes, and a tiny mustache.

Judge	Willie	[MASK] hesitated for several seconds, feeling the weight of the court members’ unfriendly looks like a pressure on his forehead. “Maybe you can make them all sound silly and trivial here, sir, but at the time they were serious.

Dr. Cukrowicz	Queeg	The background of this dislike is of the utmost consequence. The witness has confessed ignorance of medicine and psychiatry. Things [MASK] did, which caused the witness in his ignorance to dislike him, may in fact have been the helpless acts of a sick man.

Ensign	Stilwell	The sailor closed the curtain, and stood with his back to it. “Pretty sad business, [MASK].” “1 know, sir. I’ll take what’s coming to me. Whatever it is, it was worth it. If that’s all---”

Mrs. Bates	Blakely	[MASK] said frostily, “How does defense counsel justify this line of questioning?” “If the court please, it is the assigned duty of defense counsel to disprove the words in the specification—I quote—without authority, and without justifiable cause.

Buck	Willie	His lips were sharply pressed together, and his eyes were winking nervously. “Request permission to leave the ship, sir.” “Permission granted, sir,” said [MASK], and added impulsively, “You don’t know what you’re getting out of.”

Pip	Queeg	However, I suppose I can take your word as a naval officer that it didn’t happen-------” “May I know, sir,” [MASK] said in a faltering tone, “in what respect the admiral finds fault with me?”

DMS	Keggs	“Now what is a DMS?” “Who cares? A ship!” [MASK] fell back on his cot, threw his legs and arms in the air, and neighed, wept, and giggled all at once.

Ponyboy	Acres	Out of uniform, absent without leave, and violating a study period. No explanation.” “This is the end of him,” said [MASK]. “No doubt. I’m sorry for him, but obviously I had to pick him up.”

Mary	Urban	[MASK], wedged between the binnacle and the front window, clutched the quartermaster’s log as though it were a Bible. Usually there were other sailors in the wheelhouse—telephone talkers, signalmen—but they were avoiding it now as though it were the sickroom of a cancer victim.

Jane	May	Their parting kiss was passionate. Nothing was settled. He had lied to [MASK] about the talk with his mother. They were vaguely and informally engaged, but there was to be no ring, and no definite planning, until after the war.

Mrs. Moore	Willie	“May I say one thing more, sir?” [MASK] put in quickly. “Certainly.” The captain looked up, pencil poised. “You’re writing that report with this incident pretty fresh in your mind. It’s bad enough, I know.

Ponyboy	Willie	“Well, a scooter is transportation---” “Okay, okay,” said [MASK], “I’m new here, and very stupid. Please tell me how to get a start toward my ship.” The woman pondered, clicking the green bottle against her teeth.

Mrs. Prentiss	Willie	“Why, [MASK], who’s accusing anybody of lying?” The captain smiled slyly, his face lined with black wrinkles in the red light, and puffed on his cigarette. The glowing end was queerly whitish.

Ponyboy	Steve	Me?" “It’s happening in the whole squadron, [MASK]. Over on the Simon a bird who made lieutenant in October has got exec. And their new skipper is a reserve lieutenant. The whole deal is busting wide open.

""	Willie	[MASK] watched through binoculars the arrival of the assault boats on the beaches, the swarming forward of the tanks and the marines, the unexpected puffs of white and orange from the inner gray wastes of the islands. He saw some marines fall.

Jay	Keefer	He killed time in aimless dull wandering until one o’clock. [MASK] was waiting for him in the lobby of the St. Francis, slouched in an armchair, looking pallid and weedy. They went to the ornate dining room and ate an elaborate costly lunch.

Lieutenant Commander Philip Francis Queeg	Willie	Saturday night [MASK] was in his room, dressing to go to the opera. His eye fell on his wrist watch, and he realized that in twelve hours he would be on an airplane, returning to the Caine and the court-martial.

Mulligan	Willie	[MASK]’s teeth grated as though he had been punched in the face, and his ears rang. He staggered erect. He could see a puff of blue-gray smoke curling up from behind the galley deckhouse, where the gun crew still sprawled in individual gray lumps.

Matt	Stilwell------Well	He says I’m a cinch to get acquitted.” “He’s not an officer, so you can probably believe him.” “That’s how I figure it, sir,” the sailor said with perfect seriousness. “Okay, [MASK].

Jim	Porteous	The yeoman, his face twisted in a rueful leer, said, “It certainly will, sir, I hope.” “Type out your application for that school, with an approving endorsement, and I’ll sign it.” “Thank you, sir.” “That’s all, [MASK].”

Ponyboy	Willie	“It doesn’t matter. You said you want to talk to me. This is as good a place as any if you want privacy.” They went to the nearest table and sat. [MASK] threw open his coat and pulled his scarf off.

HMS Warspite	Caine	A warship is a special kind of steamship, built not for capaciousness and economy, but for power. Even the minesweeper [MASK] could oppose to the gale a force of some thirty thousand horsepower; energy enough to move a weight of half a million tons one foot in one minute.

Ponyboy	Willie	[MASK]’s stomach put in an appearance again, throbbing and heavy. He pulled his hypnotized glance away from the puzzle, and his eyes fell on the wooden crate under the captain’s washbasin. “Sir, there are offenses and offenses,” he said, his voice a little weaker.

Ponyboy	Coffee	[MASK]?” “Yes,” he said, a few minutes later, stirring his cup, “I’ve put on at least forty pounds, I know. You do, on these damn tenders. There’s so much of everything-------You look pretty good.

Piggy	Keefer	In his own room, [MASK] performed a series of grotesque monkeylike capers, during which he several times rubbed both reports forcibly against his behind. Then he dived into his bunk and buried his face in his pillow, shaking with choked laughter.

Gerty	Whittaker	“Sir, I—[MASK] would have to be an exceptionally heavy sleeper for that, and 1 don’t think----” “You don’t think, hey? Do you know that he’s not an exceptionally heavy sleeper? Did you ask him?”

Ponyboy	Maryk	“Don’t you still think so?” "I don’t know what I think any more.” “Where did you get all that dope on paranoia you put out to the investigating officer?” “Read it in a book,” [MASK] growled.

Laurie	Greenwald	The last orange rays of a sinking sun were slanting across the bay, and the air was cool and sweet after the stale varnish-and-linoleum smell of the courtroom. They walked to [MASK]’s gray Navy jeep. The gravel walk crunched loudly under their steps.

Dally	Harding	He crept into his bunk, holding his nose, and [MASK] followed. For a couple of hours he tossed and thrashed in an eerie doze full of nightmares, wakened every few minutes by a burst of clattering from the workmen.

Billy	Stilwell	A shadow fell across the page. Looking up, he saw [MASK] standing in the doorway. The sailor wore the immaculate dungarees and highly polished shoes in which he had appeared for trial at captain’s mast that morning, shortly before the arrival of the despatch.

Mrs. Norris	Queeg	“Sir, pardon me, there isn’t a ship in this squadron with a full lieutenant as custodian—it’s an ensign’s collateral duty—always is----” “Well, 1 don’t want to be unreasonable about it,” said [MASK].

Dave	Queeg	He rose. “Good enough,” he said. “Pretty nice to think of seeing my wife in three days. How about a quick Cook’s tour of the ship?” “Okay.” [MASK] dropped the steel balls into his pocket.

Mrs. Ramsay	May"s	But their relationship was too valuable an “experience” to be cut short. [MASK] letters were all that could be desired: long, loving, cheery, and usually containing good news. She was enjoying college, though she felt like a grandmother, she said, among the freshmen.

Ponyboy	Willie	“1 thought you’d be hungrier,” said his mother, watching him poke without enthusiasm at the steak. “I’m enjoying it too much to rush it,” answered [MASK]. He downed the steak.

Captain	Urban	"Was [MASK] on the bridge at the time?” “Yes.” “Was his shirttail out?” “Yes, and I reprimanded him. That took me about two seconds. I’m not in the habit of dwelling on those things.

Bob	Willie	Open up! It’s the OOD!” A crack appeared and widened. He darted through, knocking down one of the radarmen who was pushing against the door. It snapped shut as though on a spring. “What the hell!” exclaimed [MASK].

Marlow	Queeg	Well, [MASK] really surprised me. He was calm and quiet. He said I’d been his exec for eleven months and after that much training he thought he had trained me up for ship handling even though I had a disloyal and mutinous character.

Bunny	Willie	See if you can tell where the hell we are in the formation.” “Aye aye, sir.” [MASK] staggered out past the captain to the open wing. The wind immediately smashed him against the bridgehouse, and spray pelted him like small wet stones.

Davey	Queeg	He was desperately tired, having been awake for more than thirty hours, but the captain’s edict against daytime sleeping made retirement to his bunk too risky. He knew [MASK] was heavily asleep in his cabin; but there was always the chance that a call of nature would bring the captain down to the wardroom.

Jim	Willie	The spring lay in a rain gutter at the edge of a steeply slanting copper-covered roof projection beneath the window. The tenth floor was set slightly back from the rest of the building. “I can’t get that,” said [MASK].

Jim	Keggs	He went in, and dropped the books on the bare springs of a cot. He heard the twang of springs again directly behind him. “My name’s [MASK],” said the horse face, poking an arm toward him.

""	Queeg	The helmsman called, “Steadying up on 220, sir.” “WHAT?” yelled [MASK]. He dived into the pilothouse. “Who gave you the order to steady up?” “Sir, 1 thought--” “You thought! You thought!

Bunny	Steve	Well, I’m glad I got you to check, anyway, although of course it just came in. Plot it, [MASK].’’ “Aye aye, sir.” The exec studied the penciled slip and picked up his dividers. “That might be it, sir.

Dave	Tom	“Okay, [MASK]. Let it go at that.” “We started out to do a rash and disastrous thing. We backed off in time. There’s nothing wrong with that. We should be glad of it------” “Don’t say ‘we.’

Ponyboy	Keefer	The door opened and [MASK] came in, spick-and-span in freshly pressed blues, his breast-pocket ribbons crowded with battle stars. The lower gold stripes on his sleeves were faded, the upper ones bright yellow. He carried a small leather satchel.

Ponyboy	Willie	A thousand yards away an LST, painted with brown-and-green tropic camouflage, was anchored. Tied to the open ramp at the bow were three sixty-ton target sleds. [MASK] said sadly, “Oh, Christ, no.”

Laura	May.	I don’t want you to marry me because you’re sorry for me, or because you want to do the manly thing by me, or anything like that.” “I love you, [MASK]” “You’d better think about the whole thing some more.”

Captain	Keefer	But there was no mistaking the fright in [MASK]’s voice, the next second: “Commence firing! All guns commence firing!” At the same instant, not in response to the captain’s order but spontaneously, came the popping of the 20-millimeters all over the ship.

Jim	Keefer	“Get comfortable, it’s pretty long.” [MASK] sat in the chair. He glanced quizzically at the exec when he saw the first paragraphs. He read a couple of pages. “Jesus, even I’d forgotten some of this,” he murmured.

Captain	Maryk	Half a dozen deck hands stripped to the waist swarmed about under the eye of [MASK], uttering hoarse cries and warnings larded with horrible obscenities as they wrestled the junk here and there on the heaving fantail. Waves broke over their ankles when the ship rolled, and water sloshed around the gear.

Jim	Horrible	He had seen a few relatives laid out in plush-lined boxes in the amber gloom of funeral chapels, with an organ mourning sweetly through loudspeakers and a heavy smell of flowers filling the air. No undertaker had intervened, however, to prettify the death of [MASK].

Davey	Harding	“It seemed to me that the captain just lost his head in the fog, and got scared, and took out his scare on the handiest sailor.” “Well, I don’t know,” said [MASK] from directly beneath him, lying back and smoking.

Rabbi	Maryk	“Well, I’m a Jew, if that’s what you mean,” the pilot said, with a little grin at his shoes. [MASK] laughed, and said, “I’ll tell you anything you want to know.

