Mother	Amede	[MASK] helped her with the big water-pot. ‘I have told you not to carry this big water-pot. It is very big, and heavy loads will deter your growth. You will be so short that no man will marry you.’

Baby	Ogonim	She took her from her mother-in-law. ‘Give me a spoon, a small spoon quick.’ Her mother-in-law gave her a spoon. She put the spoon in [MASK]’s mouth, between her upper and lower teeth.

""	Ajanupu	‘And now,’ [MASK] went on, ’your son, where is he now? Your son who was married to such a woman. Let me tell you the truth, for it is when you are angry that you say the truth.

Mrs. Dalloway	Eneberi	I am still alive. That means that I am not an adulterous woman. So here I am. I have ended where I began -in my father’s house. The difference is that now my father is dead. But I have nothing to say to [MASK].

Mrs. Dalloway	Shara	My wife dyed her body at the back, [MASK]. When my wife comes out. She is like lightning." The woman went into the room and saw the girls. She dyed the body of one of the girls and brought her out for the spirit.

Ponyboy	Nwosu	Let day break.’ ‘Go well, let day break.’ CHAPTER FIFTEEN •Nwabata, I had a very bad dream last night/ [MASK] told his wife when he woke up in the morning. ‘A bad dream?

Mrs. Hale	Efuru	Father and daughter were astonished. ‘How did you know the object of our visit?’ [MASK] ventured to ask. The old man laughed. ‘You are children. You cannot understand. You will not understand.

""	Ogea	‘What have you brought for us?’ they asked her. She gave them some ground-nuts. [MASK] went into the room, saw a pot of soup in the mud 103 wardrobe and asked one of the children to make some gari for her. '

Mrs. Curry	Adizua	But I have suffered as nobody has suffered before. And you tell me to live. To live for what? What is the purpose of living? I cannot live a purposeless life.’ The woman had never seen [MASK]’s mother m this mood before.

Robert	Gilbert	They were going to rebuild the father’s house first and later on, they would build their own house in the new layout. [MASK] was very happy with his wife. He was proud of her and respected her. They were so much together that people admired them.

Mrs. Dalloway	Ajanupu	‘Lie down properly on the floor, I say,’ [MASK] commanded. *Ewoo, that’s the head of the child, that's the head. When I say press you press very hard. If you don’t press hard enough, you have yourself to blame.

Lennie	Adizua	[MASK] no longer worked as hard as before. In the morning he slept while others went to work. When they had done more than two hours’ work, he came to work, and left the farm before everybody else. He was so lazy that his neighbours gossiped.

Mrs. Bates	Efuru	‘It is bad, but not very bad,’ [MASK] said and hissed. ‘My husband is not happy with me,’ she continued. ‘I don’t know what is wrong. He comes home very late and won’t eat my food.

Mrs. Dalloway	Nkoyeni	She might take the footsteps of her mother who had four girls and a boy. ‘We also know that when the boy came, that [MASK] was furious. She refused to have anything to do with him, and she was actually responsible for sending the boy away.

Ponyboy	Ogea	[MASK] took the pot and ran as fast as her legs could carry her. She went straight to the stream, filled the pot and made for home. A child of about her age saw her coming and when she was near told her that her pot was not well balanced on her head.

Mami Wata	Unhamiri	‘Your dream is good. The woman of the lake, our [MASK], has chosen you to be one of her worshippers. You have to see a dibia first and he will tell you what to do.’ ‘Chosen me to be one of her worshippers!'

Mama	Nwosu	I gave you money last year without interest. You harvested your yams and did not bring me yams. You did not even come to tell me that you had sold your yams and could not pay me. [MASK], you were ill and I sent you to the hospital.

Jim	Nwosu	‘Where does it ail you?’ the doctor asked sympathetically. It was the tone of his voice, his sympathy and kindness more than his medicine that endeared him to his patients. ‘Here,’ [MASK] said, and pointed to the part he meant.

Mrs. Moore	Ajanupu	[MASK] I am worried about this girl. She goes out so often these days. It seems as if she has got an attraction somewhere.’ ‘Girls of these days grow up very quickly. Watch her. If she becomes pregnant, you are in for trouble.

Mrs. Dashwood	Nwosu	‘Just as we left it,’ she added. *We were almost the last people to leave. You heard of the illness of my husband?’ ‘Ew-ooo, I heard it, my sister. Pardon me. How are you now. [MASK]?

Mrs. Hale	Eneberi	Have you anybody in mind for [MASK]?’ ‘You are taking keen interest, my daughter, in getting a wife for your husband. It is good. I am happy.’ ‘I want my husband to have children. I am barren.’

Mrs. Gumm	Nkoyeni	The poor girl was apprehensive. She nagged the two of us every day. I stood by my husband. I tried, used all my resources at persuasion to convince [MASK] that it was false, that our husband did not go to jail. She was not convinced.

Nneka	Ajanupu	Her mother-in-law delightfully spoilt her. She bought her delicacies on Nkwo days. She petted her. She did not want her to cook. She did all the cooking and the house-work herself. One day, [MASK] came to see them.

Adaora	Efuru	The dibia after breaking the kola saw that something was wrong. He was not sure what it was. He had asked them to come again on Eke day and before that day, they heard that he was dead. ‘What did he see?’ [MASK] asked herself.

Jane	Death	[MASK] visits everybody, the rich, the poor, the blind and the lame. When it visits us, it seems as if our own grief and loss are more than our neighbours’. I conceived eight times. All died before they were six months old.

Mrs. Dashwood	Adizua	I heard it from outside. Again, [MASK]’s wife has washed and you have not told me either. What have I done to you?’ ‘Please, my sister, you have done nothing wrong. You have not offended me in any way.

Mary	Ogea	You saw the wealth, the riches, good home and you chose the life in the other world. You have not done well, my daughter.’ [MASK] wept in her comer. She went to her mistress and placed her hands on her lap.

""	Omirima	*What do you admire in the lives of those two?1 [MASK] asked contemptuously. ‘Do you know what they went through last night? Don’t be carried away by the fact that they come to the stream together and swim and play in the deep.’

Jim	Nwosu	It did not matter whether a fanner had paid for the money borrowed for his farm or not. All that mattered was that the year’s work had come to an end and it was time for feasting. So [MASK] called his age-group.

""	Nkwo	'[MASK] jumped out and embraced her sister. But when she saw the spirit, she shuddered. “My brother-in-law”, she addressed the spirit. “She is my sister and before a woman marries in our world, she must pay visits to her relatives to say good-

Mrs. Hale	Ajanupu	Luckily for me, [MASK] came. My daughter, blood is great. She had not seen me in the market for days, so she came to find out what was the matter. But for her, I would have died.’

Ponyboy	Eneke	I enjoy his stories,’ the woman said. ‘He tells his stories beautifully. It is not only the story that is so absorbing, but the way he tells it. And he has such a beautiful voice too.’ They waited for [MASK].

Mrs. O'Connor	Adizua	And what will become of me? Oh, my God, my life is ruined.’ ‘God forbid. Your life is not ruined my daughter. Our ancestors will not agree. It does not matter my daughter if [MASK] wants to marry another woman.

Kwame	Nwasobi	Before the month was out, he died. So he was thrown into the evil forest. He was not buried. ‘I don’t know the girl. But I know her parents and that is more important. She is the daughter of [MASK] the singer of Umuosuma village.

Julie	Efuru	[MASK] was awake all night. If she had known where to look for her husband, she would have done so but she did not know where to go. And so she stayed in the canoe afraid of what might be happening to her husband.

Jim	Adizua	To cut a long story short, I am glad you have come. Welcome.’ Somebody else wanted to speak. When he got up he said that [MASK] was not going to be let off easily. He must pay a fine. Others agreed that he should pay a fine.

Mother	Ogea	She was so grown up now. ‘[MASK], put her down on the bare floor. The floor is cool and the coolness will preserve the corpse. Now go and get some water from the stream. When you return, leave it at the back of the house.’

Ponyboy	Ogea	‘[MASK] went to the stream.’ ‘I am going.’ ‘Come back, don’t go. Why are you so much in a hurry?’ ‘My mother said I should come home quickly. That she will beat me if I didn’t come home quickly.’

Mrs. Dashwood	Gbonu	I heard it from outside and so I came. Is it very painful?’ ‘It is much better now. It was dreadful the first day.’ ‘[MASK], my daughter. It is what every woman undergoes. So don’t worry.’

""	Amede	1 pity these white women you know. How can one sit down in a big house all by oneself and do nothing? It must be a difficult life,’ [MASK] said. ‘My daughter-in-law enjoys it. She does not need your pity.

Mrs. Dashwood	Amede	’What will he do? Is that what you are asking; what will he do? You have a son, what will you do if his wife loses so much money? Tell me what you will do. [MASK], you don’t behave as you used to.

Mrs. Dalloway	Efuru	‘It is a good gin. We shall continue cooking our gin. I don’t see the difference between it and the gin sold in special bottles in the shops.’ [MASK]’s mother-in-law got up to go. Thank you very much.

Jim	Nwosu	It must have sounded six or seven times. It was the death of a great man. No poor man could afford to fire seven rounds of a cannon in a day. [MASK] and the fisherman could now vaguely remember the story of the cannons told them by their fathers.

Jim	Ajanupu	She cried as she had never cried before. But she did not altogether break down, as people thought. [MASK]’s coming that morning made things worse for her. She wanted to be left alone, entirely alone.

Achilles	Efuru	That’s all right. Let’s perform the sacrifices expected of us, and let the gods take any blame.’ *You are right, my sister,’ [MASK]’s mother-in-law said to her sister. ‘You are perfectly right.

Ponyboy	Eneberi	We shall look somewhere else for a wife for [MASK]. There are many girls in town. Good girls are rare, as rare as a precious pearl, but one finds the precious pearl if one has patience.’ ‘All right, mother.

Mrs. Bates	Efuru	When they got to the place, they bought crayfish in bags. Then they paddled back and sold the crayfish making a profit of over a hundred per cent. Four trips gave [MASK] and her husband a huge profit. The fifth trip was not so good.

Jim	Gilbert	The day has not broken/ [MASK] said sleepily. The cock has crowed.’ ‘Has it? You are very light you know, and a heavy sleeper too.’ ‘So you carried me to the room last night?’ *Yes, I did.

Mrs. Ramsay	Adizua	‘When I came home, I was ill and [MASK] was ill too. But for my mother, I would have died of that illness. She took me home and nursed me. But when I was well I went back to my husband’s house.

Mary	Efuru	[MASK] slept soundly that night. She dreamt of the woman of the lake, her beauty, her long hair and her riches. She had lived for ages at the bottom of the lake. She was as old as the'lake itself. She was happy, she was wealthy.

Mrs. Hale	Efuru	‘How?’.[MASK] asked in horror. The boy was playing with a stick. The maid saw him and did not take it away from him. So the stick went right into his eye and now the poor boy is blind in one eye.’

Mrs. O’Connor	Efuru	So it was a joy to her delivering [MASK]’s baby. When the baby did not cry at once, she took hold of its two legs lifted it in the air and shook it until it cried. She washed and tidied everything.

""	Efuru	When they steal and leave me alone, I shall work and replace all that they have stolen.’ ‘I am so afraid of thieves,’ [MASK] said very timidly. ‘I am not afraid of ghosts or such imaginary things, but thieves,

Mrs. Dashwood	Efuru	Many people returned and said that he heard about the death of his child.’ ‘Ew o-o-o, is that true! This is an indirect way of asking a wife to go back to her father’s house.’ [MASK] began to swim after scrubbing.

Mrs. Ramsay	Ajanupu	She thought of a conspiracy of all these three that she had sought advice from: [MASK], her mother-in-law, and now her father. She did not want to disobey these people. They had been important in her life. ’

Ponyboy	Adizua	‘Where did you go last night?* she asked very quietly. She was surprised to notice that despite all her anger the night before, she was quite composed and far from losing her temper. [MASK] did not answer. He was busy examining a blunt knife.

Mrs. O'Connor	Irona	If she went to the market and had a little gain, it went into her stomach. She did not mind starving the next day with her children." But [MASK] refused to give up the woman. The mother could do nothing. So they were married.

Ponyboy	Ajanupu	Even water could not stay in my stomach. 1 was very weak, and my body ached. There was nobody to help me. One day, a boy was passing when I was sitting by the door. I asked him to go and call [MASK] for me.

""	Efuru	She went about her business cheerfully. But many nights her husband was not S1 home and most of his meals were not eaten. So [MASK] refused to cook any more meals. One night, he returned and demanded his food. *1 did not cook anything for you.

Daisy	Omirima	*Why are you so vehement about this, [MASK]?’ ‘In other words you are saying that I have no right to discuss it You talk like a child. You forget our relationship. You forget that my great grandfather and your grandmother had the same father.

Mrs. Dalloway	Efuru	Sometimes she wondered why he had not come, but she did not give it much thought. Welcome,’ [MASK] said to him. ‘So this is your eyes? Let the eyes I have used in seeing you not desert me. Where have you been all these years?

Mrs. Dalloway	Efuru	The next day, [MASK]'s mother-in-law called her. ‘How are you feeling my daughter? Does your body communicate anything to you? ‘I don’t understand, mother.’ ‘You children don’t understand our language. All right.

Dublin	Efuru	They put down their empty buckets and went to see the woman, but by the time they got there, the woman had broken into a song, a very pathetic song, but to the children of [MASK]’s age then, it all sounded fun.

Mama	Neighbours	All the others she delivered herself. There was usually nobody around when she had her babies. She would have her baby all alone, wash it and wash herself before anybody knew what was happening. [MASK] only knew when a newly bom baby began to cry.

Mrs. Moore	Efuru	‘His sister gave us oranges and ground-nuts, but he refused to give me.’ 'Is it true?’ [MASK] asked. ‘Yes/ said the boy looking down. “Now don’t do it again, go and eat.’

Mary	Efuru	I am tired of talking. I don’t know what is wrong with young women of these days. I noticed that [MASK] has been coming home late for quite some time. I asked her whom she was seeing so late and she said nothing.

Mrs. Dashwood	Adizua	‘Come, tell me about yourself, what has happened to you since I saw you last?’ 'Nothing has happened exactly. I have been living in my father’s house. My trade is going well, and [MASK] is yet not back from his journey.’

Jim	Efuru	I am older than you are. If death kills old people first, then I shall die before you. You have me. You have [MASK]. You have my children, they are fond of you. You know that very well.

Mary	Efuru	‘I have no money for the dowry yet. [MASK] herself understands this. We have agreed to be husband and wife and that is all that matters.’ The young man’s mother was excited for her son had indeed made a good choice.

Mrs. Pettigrew	Ajanupu	I am always afraid when you do it.’ 'No, it is impossible for her legs or hands to be broken. Don’t fear my daughter. I did all that to my children.’ ‘How many children have you, [MASK]?’

""	Nkoyeni	* •Eneberi wants to marry another wife, and I think it is the right thing to do. [MASK] is giving us trouble. She heard about that jail sentence and she believes that our husband stole or did something very shameful. So she makes a lot of trouble.

Mrs. Dashwood	Gilbert	Children of these days think they know better than their parents, let it be. 1 don’t want to say anything more.’ Tell me. I know the mother very well. What has happened?* [MASK]’s mother asked, getting more and more interested.

Rani	Gilbert	Her hands make money. Anything she touches is money. If she begins to sell pepper in the market, she will make money out of it. If in salt, money will flow in; I say marry her.’ [MASK] was happy to hear this.

Nwanyi	Ogea	He came on Nkwo day to help his wife when he saw a very well-dressed woman in European dress. The woman selected ten fat yams and asked: •How much?* in English. [MASK]’s mother did not of course understand.

Mrs. Ramsay	Efuru	* [MASK]’s mother-in-law asked. ‘I am sure I have not offended him in any way. I have not even quarrelled with him for not eating my food. For a long time now we have not lived as husband and wife.

Aunty	Nkoyeni	This is very sad.’ It seemed as if cold water was poured on [MASK]’s body during the harmattan. Her heart missed a beat. She stared at the woman who said these incomprehensible words. ‘What are you saying?’ another woman said.

Mrs. Hale	Efuru	On the appointed day, the young men went to bring back their daughter who had brought so much disgrace to them. Immediately [MASK] saw the men, she came out and greeted them. ‘Welcome, my brothers. What good wind brings you here today.

Mrs. Dalloway	Adizua	Angry because she had again loved in vain. She had deceived herself all these years, as she deceived herself when she was [MASK]’s wife. She was filled with hate and resentment, qualities that were foreign to her nature.

Ponyboy	Tou	[MASK] are superstitious,’ he said. ‘Say what you like, I cannot pass that tree this night.’ ‘All right, we won’t pass that way, we shall go the other way.’ “No, I won’t go.

Mrs. Dashwood	Ogea	Put yourselves in my position and see whether you would be pleased if someone did this to you. It is because of [MASK] that I have the patience at all to listen to you. I am fond of her, otherwise, I would not have listened to you.

Mrs. Ramsay	Eneberi	She went into the room. ‘Why are you laughing? Did 1 not hear well? If I did not hear well, tell me. Eh, [MASK] is it true?’ ‘Yes, it is true.

Mrs. Dalloway	Gilbert	‘It does not always end in the kitchen, when the girl is allowed to finish, she can teach and thus bring money in that way.' [MASK] rose up to go. ‘You are going very soon. Won’t you stay a little longer?

Ponyboy	Gilbert	‘I am not leaving tonight,’ [MASK] said. ‘Oh, you want to spend another night in the town. I won’t stop you. But remember that thieves could come at night and steal all the com we have bought.

Ponyboy	Ogea	he had refused to eat my food. He insisted on eating that night and went to his room. I went to the kitchen and cooked something for him. When I finished and sent [MASK] to call him, he was not in his room.

Mother	Uhamiri	It is a great honour. She is going to protect you and shower riches on you. But you must keep her laws. Look round this town, nearly all the storey buildings you find are built by women who one time or another have been worshippers of [MASK].

Kambili	Adizua	She remembered the day she and her father went to the dibia and what the sage told her. And above all, she remembered the first day she felt in her womb that she was expecting [MASK]’s baby and also the day she had the baby.

Ponyboy	Efuru	[MASK] got up early and went to the stream to fetch water. She took extra care about her appearance. She wore a new wrappa and plaited her long black hair into four. When she came to the gate, she saw the old woman who was at the gate the night before.

Akpan	Efuru	He started dealing in cigarettes and when he made headway, he soon owned a fairly large stall in the market. He was still unmarried which was strange. [MASK] brought kola-nuts and a bottle of home-made gin. ‘Who will break the kola?’

Ponyboy	Gilbert	‘Come on Eke day then.’ “No, I won't come. You come when you have time. I am going to sleep. Let day break.’ ‘I must marry her,’ [MASK] kept on telling himself.

Mrs. Hale	Efuru	When you finish the cassava, bring it along with the children. I want to go and help [MASK] with the funeral.’ There, there, it sounds again, like thunder rendering the quiet of the morning.

Mrs. O'Connor	Efuru	[MASK]’s mother-in-law went to the direction of the call. She bought some oranges and bananas from the woman who called her. ‘I hope she is doing well,’ the woman asked her. 'Oh, she is doing very well.

Mrs. Ramsay	Ogea	As soon as [MASK] saw the coffin, she began to weep again. "Please don’t put her in that coffin," she wept. ‘Please don’t put her in that wretched coffin, put me instead.

Mrs. Ramsay	Ogea	When she finished sweeping, she began to eat. ‘You don't sit like that when you are eating. Put your legs together and sit like a woman.’ [MASK] did as she was told and continued eating.

Mrs. Hale	Gilbert	‘It will not stop,’ said [MASK]. ‘Even those who are caught in the trade and go to jail often come back after their term of imprisonment determined to pursue the trade with all their might. Nothing stops them from trading in it.’

Mary	Ogea	‘You are spoiling [MASK]. You just leave her to do what she likes. Remember she is a girl and she will marry one day. If you don’t bring her up well, nobody will marry her. By the way, can she cook now?’

Jane	Efuru	You may not wait as long as I did. I gained nothing from my long suffering, so the world would think, but I am proud that I was and still am true to the only man I loved.’ [MASK] did not say a word.

Akachi	Nnoro	‘Yes, [MASK]. I don’t know what he wants me to do, that boy. There is no dibia I have not been to. He had a convulsion yesterday.’ ‘Convulsion? How did it happen?’

Mrs. Darling	Efuru	When I opened my eyes, I saw that I was in a large room. Please thank your daughter for me and the doctor also. He came every day to see me.’ ‘Welcome home. 1 shall thank [MASK] when she Comes back.’

Mrs. O’Connor	Efuru	She had to go to the farm with him and she had to learn the hard way. She was able to endure it because of the tremendous love she had for her husband and her children. Surprisingly enough, the following evening husband and wife found themselves going to [MASK]’s house.

Mrs. Dalloway	Omirima	And now you ask me this impertinent question.’ ‘So it is true that she has been paying her visits?* [MASK] went on, strengthened by this information. That’s it, they saw something before they started talking. Did I say they must have seen something.

