Mrs. Dursley	Sheri	“My stepmothers cooked. Some people even asked for more.” She laughed. “I don’t think it’s funny, [MASK]. We laugh and one day we will be laughing in our graves.” “Ignore the man. He can’t do anything.

Ponyboy	Damola	The song ended and we found two empty chairs. [MASK] was not an enigma, I’d told my friends, who were searching for the right word for nobody-knows-what's-inside-his-mind. Enigmas would have more to hide than their shyness.

Eid	Moslems	I waited. In the silence of my home I waited, as harmattan season passed and the Moslem fasting period, Ramadan, approached. Those who could afford time and money began to look forward to the day of the new moon on which [MASK] feasted.

Jake	Damola	“Your boyfriend, [MASK]. I found out he’ll be there.” Tears filled my eyes. “You rotten little... ” I resisted the urge to hug her. As she tried to explain her connection to him, I lost track.

Mrs. Chang	Mike	I could smell the coconut rice and sweet ginger of the pineapple bake in the oven. “Is everything ready?” I asked. She nodded. “You can call them in now.” I paused by the door. “You met [MASK]?”

Ponyboy	Mike	he asked. “Nothing,” I said. “Come and talk to me.” He pointed to the spectator stand by the race tracks. We walked there and sat on the bottom row. [MASK] removed one of the coils from the box and lit it.

Mrs. McTeague	Sheri	They told him my arrest was an unfortunate incident. Two weeks later when I read in the papers that the hall had been fire-bombed and some of [MASK]’s customers complained because they would have to change venues for their wedding receptions, I said nothing.

Dallas	Sheri	Good women didn’t fight on the streets. Good women didn’t come looking for men. Good women were at home. My fingers trembled over my steering wheel and tears pricked my eyes, but they wouldn’t fall. I drove fast till I reached [MASK]’s house.

Mother	Sheri	Still the news from home had not improved: “Ah, these civilians, they are worse than the military.” “Ah, these politicians. Don’t you know? They’re nothing but thieves.” I heard about [MASK] again during this time.

Mary	Yimika	You know I won’t take chances with her.” He pulled his tie through his collar. [MASK] whined in her crib. I could feel my milk in my chest. I rolled my shoulders. I was not ready to feed her.

Mrs. Dalloway	Mike	[MASK] turned to me. “They’re getting on my nerves.” I smiled. “I thought you wanted to teach children.” “I’ve made the biggest mistake of my life.” “I thought you never had regrets.

Joe	Niyi	He turned his profile. “It’s my foreign roots.” My laugh rushed through my nostrils. “Foreign my ass.” [MASK] liked to remind me of his Brazilian ancestry the way an English person might say he were part French or part something else.

Jane	Damola	Girls opened the windows and the wind brought in the smell of wet grass. My classmates were singing another song now, this one a jazz standard and I joined them, thinking only of [MASK]. Always get that mood indigo Since my baby said goodbye...

Jesus	Yoruba	I interrupted. I smiled. I’d been teasing him from the start. What was he saying? He was Catholic, and he wasn’t even [MASK]. How much did he really understand about our gods? And my Yorubaness was like my womanness.

Mary	Sheri	The flies swarmed the market place, perching on mangoes, between spinach leaves and lumps of cow flesh. Later they would settle in the gutters and clotted drains and fly back to the food. I had left [MASK] to bargain. She was better at it.

Mary	Sheri	I wondered what I would do with those. As I stood before my mirror, I traced the grooves around my plaits. [MASK]’s afro was so fluffy, it moved as she talked. I grabbed a comb from my table and began to undo my plaits.

Mrs. Robinson	Sheri	There were palm trees and casuarinas. I saw a group gathered behind a row of cars. I was so busy looking ahead I tripped over a twig. My sandal slipped off. [MASK] carried on. She approached two boys who were standing by a white Volkswagen Kombi van.

Olusegun	Sheri	It was the same with the Nigerian elite and foreign aid, always complaining about how patronizing that was, when Nigerians who really needed help could care less where it came from. [MASK] was discovering just how hard it was to get money from wealthy Nigerians.

Mrs. Pfeiffer	Sheri	Biscuits, coconut candy, now donuts. [MASK] brought food to my house each time she visited and she had not said a word about what happened. “Where are you going?” she asked when I stood up. “Toilet,” I snapped.

Jim	Niyi	When did we ever have family in our home? My mother’s family was her church. My father avoided his because they were always trying to extort money from him. “Big Foot,” I said. It was [MASK]’s youngest brother, the tallest and skinniest.

Ponyboy	Mike	We were moving. I wondered how; there had been other cars in front of us. I heard car engines. [MASK] pressed on his horn and I covered my ears. We drove over a bump and my knee punched my chin. I no longer saw the hole.

Jim	Niyi	At the time, I was working for the Ministry of Justice and supplementing my income with the odd business incorporation. After we got married, [MASK] introduced me to some of his friends in banking and I found a job in credit control.

Mrs. Doyle	Sheri	You’re not that pretty, either of you. Sharrap. Oh, sharrap both of you. You should feel happy that a man noticed you. If you’re not careful, I’ll sex you both.” [MASK] and I turned our backs on him.

Daisy	Robin	I didn’t like the inflection in her voice. “Flipping heck,” she said. “There’s no pleasing you.” [MASK] was the laziest and smartest fourteen-year-old I knew, and she beat me in class tests every time.

Mary	Sheri	She was dressed in a black skirt and strapless top. [MASK] was no longer a yellow banana. She could easily win any of the beauty contests in my school, but her demeanor needed to be toned down. She was gragra. Girls who won were demure.

Mother	Niyi	I fell asleep after midnight. When I woke up three hours later, my gums throbbed and my mouth tasted as if I’d been chewing on iron beads. Going downstairs to get a drink of water, I saw a strip of light under [MASK]’s door.

Mrs. Phelan	Sheri	What I wished was for my parents to come home. [MASK] was making me angry enough to punch walls. I came out without washing my hands. She was eating another donut. “You’re going to be sick,” I said, grabbing my book.

Jim	Shalewa	Who would carry my mother? I thought. Her arms, her legs. They would have to carry her with care, as if she were sleeping, as if she could wake. Once her mother left, [MASK] resumed her game with the place mat.

Kunta	Wine	“Yes. Tell her we need more rice. And beer. [MASK] is like water to me. I’m an African man.” I delivered the message to her word for word. “He can’t be talking to me,” she said.

Ponyboy	Damola	“How come no one is dancing?” “Would you like to?” [MASK] asked. I hugged myself as they walked off, to make use of my arms. The rest of my body trembled. “How long have you been here?”

Mrs. Okonkwo	Sheri,’’she	Typical Lagos people, my father said. They made merry till they dropped, or until their neighbors did. “I’m [MASK] said, as if I’d asked for her name. “I’ve never seen you before,” I said. “So?”

Daisy	Sheri	A portrait of her stepmothers and another of her father alone. A pile of old mustard colored curtains were folded under the window. The green mosquito screen had ripped in two places. Dust. Everywhere. [MASK] could not bear the mess, I was sure.

my father	Niyi	I could agree with [MASK]; at least the tiredness would go away. “Everyone has at least one choice,” my father said, whenever I talked about women in home prisons. He was shocked. How could one make such a false and simplistic comparison?

Mary	Sheri	Soon he paused to wipe sweat from his forehead using the neckline of his bloody undershirt. [MASK] returned to me. She had lost some weight and it showed in her face. “You’re skinny,” I said. “You think?” she said.

Darling	Sheri	“You’ll never find anything in there for me,” I said. “Wait and see,” she said. “I won’t like it, [MASK]. I know I won’t, and I’m not going to change to please you.”

Ponyboy	Sheri	[MASK] smiled. “Why else would he do that for us?” “He alone knows what he does,” I said, “and why.” As a child, I knew that he strayed. I chose not to think about it.

Mom	Sheri	You have nothing to do but remember.” [MASK] wouldn’t stop nagging me about feeding her later that day. “This child is hungry! This child needs to eat right now!” “You’re driving me crazy,” I finally told her.

Mrs. Dalloway	Shalewa	“That’s my girl. Go upstairs and get your shoes. Her mummy is coming for you.” [MASK] ran upstairs, half-smiling. She tripped on a stair and exaggerated her limp. “Will she be okay?” I asked.

Ponyboy	Sheri	I covered my ears. She ran toward me, clutching her top to her chest. There was lipstick across her mouth, black patches around her eyes. The portly boy fumbled with his trousers. [MASK] slammed into me. I shook her shoulders.

Daddy	Titus	[MASK] sometimes corrected my English. I returned to the veranda. “How are you?” my father asked. “Fine,” I said. He patted my arm. “That will end when you start work with me.”

Papa	Niyi	I could barely form the words because my mouth was dry. “My mother is dead,” I said. We arrived home and [MASK] headed straight for the kitchen to cook a meal. I was lying in bed when he brought it to me. Fried plantain.

Mrs. Dalloway	Niyi	I’ve spent the whole day in that bloody kitchen... ” “Where is this food?” [MASK] interrupted. I leaned over the banister. “When you are truly hungry, those bearings of yours, you’ll find them very quickly.”

Jim	Niyi	Only his mother sneaked visits to him. Then his wife left him. The day she found a new boyfriend, their son stopped calling. Now, years later, although they were all on speaking terms, [MASK] swore he would never forget each person’s role.

Ponyboy	Enitan	Sheri opened the door. “[MASK],” she said. “Will you come out for a moment?” I got up, aware that the others were watching me. Not greeting was considered rude. Outside, the sun warmed my head.

Dally	Niyi	This is too much for me. Look at me.” [MASK] looked as if he wished I were still upstairs sleeping. “You hear me?” I asked. His expression didn’t change. I gave him time. “So,” I said.

Ponyboy	Sheri	I leaned over to shut my window and [MASK]’s head popped up: “Aburn!” I jumped at least a foot high. “What is wrong with you? Can’t you use the door?” “Oh, don’t be so morose,” she said.

the house	Alhaja	“Why didn’t you?” “My father died.” “I’m sorry to hear that. I only heard that you moved.” “He died,” she said, scraping the ground with her shoe. “And we lost [MASK], too.

Jim	Sheri	“Sit,” my father said. My mother patted her chest. “She will listen to me.” I shut my eyes and imagined I was on the balcony with [MASK]. We were laughing and the sun had warmed my ear. Their voices faded.

Jane	Sheri	“Shut the windows,” someone said. A few girls jumped up to secure them. Over the years, [MASK] and I exchanged letters, sharing our thoughts on sheets tom from exercise books, ending them “love and peace, your trusted friend.”

""	Bisi	I was frying plantains in the kitchen with my mother that evening, when oil popped from the frying pan and struck my wrist. “Watch what you’re doing,” she said. “Sorry,” [MASK] said, peeping up from the pots she was washing.

Mother	Sheri	I recalled how he punished me for lying as a child, how he would not forgive me for sneaking out with [MASK]. It wasn’t her—it was him I couldn’t trust. The joke was that a man’s families discovered each other at his burial.

Mrs. Dalloway	Sheri	My beer went down the wrong way. —sO [MASK] was sitting on her bed. I stood before her mirror, wearing work clothes: a black skirt suit that always needed to be coaxed down. “You can’t go out like that,” she said.

Ponyboy	Mike	I washed my face, came out and found [MASK] lying on the couch with his shirt off. “You can pick any of my shirts,” he said, pointing to his rack of clothes. “I don’t want a shirt,” I said, unbuttoning mine.

Mother	Enitan	I thought they would all talk for a while. Instead, my father knocked on my door moments later. “[MASK], will you come out?” I’d been lying on my bed, staring at my ceiling. I dragged myself out.

Mrs. Phelps	Mike	“Liar,” I said. I packed a bag, didn’t even look at him as I walked out. For all I cared, he could take my hymen, stretch it out, and hang it on the wall next to [MASK]’s mosaic.

Daisy	Niyi	I waddled to [MASK], already imagining my stomach big, fell into his arms and his eyes filled with tears. “I thought we were finished,” he said. “We are never finished,” I said. We promised not to argue.

Daisy	Sheri	I burst into tears. “She’s beautiful,” I said. Like a pearl. I could have licked her. I had only one wish for her, that she would not be disinherited in her lifetime. I chose [MASK] as her godmother.

Darry	Mike	They’ll think I’m... shit.” I was hoarse from screaming. I went to his bathroom to wash myself when I heard a knock on the door. “Would you like a beer?” [MASK] asked. “I’m going round the comer.”

Kambili	Sheri	In the veranda, the other children sat on chairs with bowls of akara on their laps. The girls wore dresses; the boys were in short-sleeved shirts and shorts. [MASK] had changed into a tangerine-colored maxi length dress and was strutting around ordering them to be quiet.

Aunty	Sheri	She threw the bone on her plate. “One day your eyes will open.” By the time I was ready to leave, I was bloated, but [MASK] wouldn’t hear of it. She served more jollof into a Tupperware container and handed it to me.

Odin	Oshun	There was no paradigm. Every civilization began and ended with an imperfect human being. “[MASK] is your Aphrodite,” he said. “And this Obatala?” “The creator of the human form.” “Yet you’ve made him a woman.”

Mary	Yimika	My point was about a condition of the mind. Most days, I was as conscious of making choices as I was of breathing. “I raised you better,” my father said. “You think,” I said. [MASK] was dressed in her white christening gown.

Mary	Sumbo	The hem line of her dress was askew. “Ah, [MASK],” my mother said. “You’ve finished in there?” “Yes, ma,” she said. “Good. You can go now.” The girl disappeared.

Mrs. Phelps	Ibrahim	“I cook for a week,” she explained. “[MASK] sometimes shows up with friends, and there has to be food. I make his separately. He can’t eat pepper because of his ulcer.” “That’s nonsense.” “Why?”

Jim	Niyi	So. What you did for your father, that was right. But you were wrong not to consult your husband first. He is the head of the house. He has a right to know. Now. What happened later, I think [MASK] was wrong.

Jim	Kola	She was studying to be an accountant, though her university was closed after a student protest. There was [MASK], her brother, who always looked weighed down because his family had called him a dullard for so long.

Mrs. Dalloway	Niyi	She had conned a whole bunch of people into submitting their children for her Montessori classes, hosted art exhibitions for artists she knew nothing about, dabbled in interior design. All these things required skills, I told [MASK] who started calling her “the blockhead next door.”

Mother	Sheri	She was still asleep, smiling too. I preferred to think she was having a good dream, but [MASK] had told me that it was wind. There was sweat in her hair. I couldn’t help but pick her up. Whenever she was sleeping, I missed her.

Mary	Moslems	I asked why [MASK] didn’t eat pork. “It’s a filthy beast,” she said, scratching her hair. I told her about my own life, how my brother died and my mother was strict. “That church sounds scary,” she said.

Jim	Nefertiti	A more falling-down four-year-old I had not seen, with a head so long he could pass for [MASK]. Outside, he’d collided with pots, grazed his knees, bumped his head on a washing line pole.

Mrs. Phelps	aburo	“My father sometimes entertains and his cook is terrible. I will mention you to him.” She patted me toward the door. “Thank you, [MASK]." As I left her home, it occurred to me that I was glad I was not pretty.

Ponyboy	Sheri	I shook her shoulders. “[MASK]!” She buried her face in my dungarees. Spit dribbled out of her mouth. She beat the sand with her fists. Her arms were covered in sand and so were mine.

Sex	Banana	“He’s doing her!” I covered my mouth. “Sex,” she said. “[MASK] into tomato. Don’t you know about it?” My hand dropped. “Oh, close your mouth before a fly enters,” she said.

Mrs. Piggy	Peace	Different temperaments, but if they faced each other, they always saw eye to eye. Thankfully, they were rarely in the office. The others, I saw more of: [MASK], the receptionist and secretary whose gymnastics with bubble gum broke new boundaries every day.

Mrs. Pym	Robin	Her family moved out of our neighborhood and I lost contact with her. [MASK] assured me that justice was not much fairer in her country. The motto of the Old Bailey should read, “Pwotect the wich and punish the Iwish.”

""	Mike	I drew close to my father. “He’s an architect,” I said, “but he does this on the side.” “Really,” my father said. [MASK] approached us with an apologetic smile. “I never thought they would... ”

Ponyboy	Niyi	-so I decided to go to the reading. I wanted to be around people who had taken a stand against our government. At home, [MASK]’s silence was upsetting me, and I couldn’t forget about my father’s detention.

Mrs. Phelps	Obatala	I heard a door shut and realized she was running from me. Stupid girl. She was running from me. I ran up the stairs. I headed straight for [MASK], grabbed her, seemingly, by the ear and dragged her out.

Jessica	Bisi	My father opened the refrigerator and pulled out a bottle of beer. Again [MASK] rushed to his aid, and this time he allowed her to open the bottle. “You should tell her young girls don’t do this anymore,” he said. “Who said?”

Aunty	Sheri	[MASK] cradled her. I offered a calabash of kola nuts to my father-in-law. He picked one, split it in half and took a bite. My mother-in-law sat next to him, also chewing.

Ponyboy	Titus	“Where is [MASK]?” I asked. “Day off,” he said. “You’re lucky. I brought you jolbf.” He made a show of being shocked. “I know it is not you who cooked that.

Ponyboy	Niyi	[MASK] and his brothers tried to slap his manhood into his back, punch it into his skinny ribs. “Speak like a man! Speak like a man!” I warned them, “You’ll kill this boy before he discovers his sexual preference.”

Mrs. Phelps	Sheri	“Gather your family for last rites. And oh, don’t forget, on your tombstone: ‘The wicked have done their worst’.” We laughed. [MASK] handed me a tight obituary parcel. “But people suffer,” I said.

Jon	Bom	he said. “[MASK] and bred.” “And you don’t know your gods?” “Should I?” “We don’t respect our heritage enough.” “I respect my heritage; its right to evolve and change.”

Ayodele	Yimika	Because of my mother’s death, only family members were invited to [MASK] naming ceremony, but they filled our living room. I placed the calabash on an empty stool and bit my kola nut. It was a gesture of affirmation for our prayers.

Darling	Sheri	I thought she was going home so I ran to the front door to stop her. She said she wasn’t angry, but why did I never want to do anything? I pushed her up the drive. “I’ll get into trouble, [MASK].”

Adebisi	Sheri	He was singing that Yoruba song, “I married a yellow girl” when [MASK] grabbed him. “I beat him up,” she said. “Then I emptied his school bag on his head and pushed him into the gutter. I will never forget his name.

Darcy	Shalewa	“[MASK], you have to get off.” She scowled. Her brothers were dancing around the tennis table singing: “Kith me I’m Thexy!” One of them tugged the comers of his mouth. I felt bad for causing them to laugh at her.

Judge	Niyi	The magistrate ordered her to cover up. The caption read, “No Need for Nakedness.” [MASK] walked in. I held the paper up. “Have you read this?” I asked. His mouth was open. My heartbeat quickened. “What?”

Sodapop	Sheri	But my mother had more hope of squeezing me up her womb than stopping our friendship. [MASK] had led me to the gap between parental consent and disapproval. I would learn how to bridge it with deception, wearing a face as pious as a church sister before my mother and altering steadily behind her.

Darrel	Debayo	He had big eyes and that wasn’t from my father. He was wearing blue khaki trousers and a striped yellow shirt. “[MASK],” I said. “Yes,” he said. He had a widow’s peak. That was my father’s.

Mohammed	Mike	At the hawkers stall, I selected a box of mosquito coils, a packet of Trebor mints and paid for them. Contemplating another packet, I felt a tap on my shoulder. It was [MASK]. He bent to pick a box of mosquito coils.

Ponyboy	Peace	Monday morning I went to my father’s office. [MASK] began to cry as soon as I mentioned the word detention. I felt dishonest standing there and promising them that their jobs were secure. What did I know about running my father’s business?

Dallas	Mike	[MASK] clamped his hands over his head. I placed the broken board on the ground, and walked down the stairs. “Tell her,” I said. “Tell her she should be running away from you, not me.” “Not my work,” he said.

Jim	Paspidospulus	You know white people, they pay well, unlike our people.” “He treated you well?” “[MASK]? The kindest man ever. He gave me his wife’s old clothes to maintain a professional appearance, though her trousers never fitted my ass.”

Ponyboy	Sheri	From the angle I approached it, I could see nothing behind the windscreen. As I came closer, I spotted the head of the boy with a cap bent over by the window. I edged toward the side door. [MASK] was lying on the seat.

James	Baba	She worried that he was overworked. I found [MASK] by the gates of our estate, and drove him to the nearest bus stop. We passed a market place. The sky had turned gray and the market women were clearing up in anticipation of the rain.

Mrs. Curry	Enitan	I had not been touched in four months. ^ “[MASK]?” My mother-in-law stood in the doorway. I hurried over to my bed to retrieve my clothes. I was tripping and huddling over. “Sit,” she finally said.

Mary	Sheri	It was sad to see women acting out like their fathers, because they were so determined not to be like their mothers; worse, to see women joining born-again churches, seeking refuge from their marriages as some mothers had. [MASK]’s younger siblings greeted me as I walked across the cement square.

Bob	Niyi	“You have no idea,” I said. Bankers were not like lawyers. We were accustomed to waiting for due process. We expected delays. [MASK] pulled my nose. “Stop,” I said and slapped his hand away. He patted my head.

