Mrs. Ramsay	Chen	Not for the first time, [MASK] received a passionate invitation to have dinner at the newly expanded restaurant. "I phoned your office. They told me you are on vacation. Now you surely have time to dine at our restaurant."

Jim	Chen	She only edited the collection." "Please take it. Read it when you have time. Maybe you will spot something. Please, boss?" [MASK] agreed, then asked "Have any new leads turned up in your interviews?" "No, not really.

Mrs. Dalloway	Peiqin	It happened sometimes when she was overtired. She must have stayed up late reading for the last few nights. For his sake. After all these years, he still found [MASK] full of surprises. He sometimes wondered whether she should have lived a different life.

Wang	Yu	consulting Old Liang's list of the suspects who lived in the shikumen building, [MASK] started his investigation early the next morning at the neighborhood committee office. On the desk was a new folder that contained information about each suspect, probably derived from the records maintained by the veteran residence cop.

Jim	Chen	Then [MASK] started to think about buying a room in that area, too. Perhaps he could buy a modest room for his mother, who refused to move in with him. At least it would be better than the attic she had lived in for thirty years.

Morris	Yu	Stroking his chin, [MASK] put the report back in the folder, tore the seal off the door, and entered the room. It was a barren, shabby cubicle. As indicated in the report, there was no sign of a struggle—or, more accurately, no sign of one remained.

Mrs. Ramsay	Chen	Another book?" "Perhaps. It is in English." "Is it the translation of her novel?" [MASK] went on, after a pause, "I don't see the point of locking it up when the book has already been published."

Wang Mingmei	Jie	Even in the years before the Cultural Revolution, a Rightist was to be avoided like the plague. [MASK] had had her own family to worry about. Partially because of him, she also had been put on the "control and use" list.

Daisy	Yang	So her promise was worthless. The more he thought about it, the more upset he became. In his mind, even her opportunity to go abroad was derived from her relationship with [MASK]. He had to take action, he decided, before it was too late.

Mama	Xiangxiang	She had to support the whole family. "We have worked our butts off, for what?" [MASK] complained, wiping her hands on her gray apron. "All the meat goes to the government. Nothing but the soup is left for us."

Michael	Chen	But what about the poor, who in the real world could hardly keep their pots boiling? He was not meant to be a philosopher or economist, [MASK] reminded himself. He was nothing but a cop who happened to be translating a business proposal relating to the history of the city.

""	Yang	"[MASK] said it was a story of an intellectual, and he was an intellectual himself. That's it. If the school authorities ever looked into the matter, I could claim that it was his diary—at least so I thought.

Mrs. Macomber	Yin	After an hour and a half, the events of the previous morning could be reconstructed as follows: [MASK] was one of the early birds. She left the building on the morning of February 7, at around five fifteen, through the back door.

Dante	Chen	It would have been much easier for him to check his citations afterward. The collection included a number of poems [MASK] recognized immediately, even in English, but a few of them offered no clue as to what the original might have been.

Ponyboy	Zhuang	Though he would not have talked to people about it, it was possible that one of his relatives might have visited him and stumbled upon his writing, the way [MASK] had discovered it in the dorm. The other possibility, of course, was Internal Security.

Mrs. Gatsby	Bao	Not that much money was involved. We did not want to cause a scandal. So we paid [MASK] an amount equivalent to the remaining thirty percent." "In other words, you ended up paying the normal rate— 100%—for the book."

Mrs. Prentiss	Yin	It fit the description given by the shrimp woman. The time was right, too. It made sense for [MASK] to have referred to him as her nephew. In view of the difference in their ages, it would have been too much to call him her grandnephew.

Zhang	Bao	The first few months, he occasionally wrote home, and once even mailed fifty Yuan to his mother but the correspondence became less frequent, and then stopped. According to someone from the same village, [MASK] had not been doing too well in the city.

Poirot	Chen	Chief Inspector [MASK]?" "It's going slowly, but steadily. I mean the progress of the translation, if that's what you are asking about." "Oh, I'm not worried about that. The project is in good hands, I know."

Zhuang Ying	Qiao	The past is past,' people said to her, and to [MASK] too. "Life went on as usual. She remained single and edited a poetry manuscript left by him. A collection of his poems was then published by Shanghai Literature Publishing House.

Mrs. Gulch	Gu	"Oh, what's that?" "A laptop. It may save you some time. You won't have to type and retype on your typewriter. I told [MASK] about your work and he asked me to bring this computer to you today."

Mrs. McBride	Yin	I asked them to check all [MASK]'s relatives, with special focus on information about a possible nephew of hers. But the information they provided is the same you had obtained." "She could have referred to someone who was a boy as a 'nephew.'

Ponyboy	Yin	After a couple of years, however, they knew they had been pretty much forgotten. It seemed they were never going to be allowed to go back to the city, even though they were no longer at the center of the revolution. "[MASK], too, found reason to reflect.

Jim	Yin	"So you are no longer worried about what will happen to you?" "I did what I did, and, as a man, I take responsibility." "Now, what did you do after you killed [MASK]?" "I went back to my room.

""	Chen	"I would like that," [MASK] said, smiling in spite of himself. "Take the courtyard, for another example. You may do practically anything in it, even to sleeping outside in the summer, on a rattan rediner or bamboo mat.

""	Yin	[MASK] had chosen to go through the Writers' Association because of her membership in that group, rather than through her college. The application was based on an invitation from a small American university for a trip at the end of the coming summer.

Mao	Powerful	She threw herself into criticism of counterrevolutionary or revisionist "monsters," and emerged as a leading member of the College Revolutionary Committee. [MASK] in this new position, she pledged herself to carry on "the continuous revolution under the proletarian dictatorship."

Jim	Yang	"Yes, I see: you did not want to get him—and yourself too—into trouble. Did [MASK] tell you anything else about it?" "It was really naive of him to tell me that he was writing a story.

Mrs. Phelps	Chen	I got nothing really informative from him. As for the file provided by her school authorities, it contains little except a bunch of official cliches." "Anybody would be nervous discussing a dissident writer," [MASK] said. "The less said, the better.

Michael	Chen	"We have to employ our best people." "But this is my first vacation in three years. I've already made my plans," [MASK] said, having decided not to mention the translation project he had undertaken.

Jane Austen	Yin	"As to the uneven quality of her writing, one critic made a similar point, saying that [MASK] might have used a ghostwriter. After all, she had never written anything before." "But that does not account for the inconsistency."

Mrs. Liu	Yu	He felt he had let the couple down terribly. "[MASK] is working on the Yin case, as you know. He does not have much time for reading. So I am going to read Death of a Chinese Professor on his behalf.

Mrs. Poyser	Yin	The food market pays by the weight of the finished product. I cannot even afford time to go to my chamber pot." "You work very hard, I know. But I also know that you got to [MASK]'s room some time between six fifty-five and seven ten.

Jane	Gu	But she seemed to be quite at ease already, almost at home. Taking off her jacket, she started to wash up the cups and the ashtray on the desk without waiting for his orders. Perhaps [MASK] had given her his orders. "What about your schoolwork?"

Mao	Mao	The years under [MASK]'s communist rule seemed to have been wiped out by the pink napkin in the hand of a young waitress, who wore a scarlet qi dress with high slits through which one could see flashes of her white thighs.

Mao Zedong	Yin	Then color photos appeared showing [MASK] with a red scarf—a Young Pioneer saluting the five-starred flag on her school campus. In a hand-colored picture, she stood happily in People's Square, between a white-haired man and a small thin woman: her parents, presumably.

Ponyboy	Yu	Old Half Place is a good place. I hope I'll see you here again." "We will certainly come back," [MASK] said. "When the investigation is over, you will have to tell me more about your gourmet tricks."

Mrs. Ramsay	Chen	The only help she could provide was through her reading; as a result, she was susceptible to exaggerating some possibilities. Still, she did all this for her husband, who had been left to deal with a difficult case all by himself. Then [MASK] spoke on the spur of the moment. "

Darling	Peiqin	A light gray smudge from the back of her hand appeared on her forehead. He chose not to mention it. But he said, "Don't do this again, [MASK]. It's not worth it. " "It's not about the money.

Mrs. Sheed	Yin	[MASK] was denied the right to visit him until the very last day of his life, when everybody could see that he was beyond hope. It was a cold day, and his hands in hers were even colder.

Mrs. Wang	Yin	[MASK] had a coal briquette stove as well as a small table in the common kitchen area. It was her space, inherited from the previous tingzijian occupant; she took it even though she hardly cooked. Like her predecessor, she also kept a smaller gasoline stove outside her door on the staircase landing.

Michael	Yu	A notice was sent out to the neighborhood committees, particularly to those areas where provincials were known to gather together. In normal circumstances, three to five days would be considered a reasonable period before any feedback started coming in, but [MASK] did not think he could wait that long.

Mrs. Mac	Li	A bureau Mercedes was parked in the driveway. "They told me your mother is still sleeping," [MASK] said, "so I think I'll just say a few words to you here. I have a city government meeting this morning."

Mrs. Ramsay	Yin	How could it have taken you somewhere between ten and fifteen minutes to reach [MASK]'s room?" "Fifteen minutes?" She was momentarily flabbergasted. "I don't know. I do not know what you are driving at, Comrade Detective.

Harry	Chen	"I hope not, but what they do often makes sense only to themselves. You never know; they may have their own interests in the case," [MASK] said. "Have I ever told you about my earliest encounter with them?"

Jiang	Gu	He was sitting in an elegant bar, opposite [MASK], CEO of the Shanghai New World Group, a startup with both government and triad connections. Taking a leisurely sip of the French red wine in his glass, which scintillated under the dazzling crystal chandelier, he reflected on the irony of the situation.

""	Yu	"I've been thinking about that too," [MASK] said. "I have checked with Shanghai Literature Publishing House. She did not earn much from her novel. I found a little money in her desk drawers, but also some correspondence with people abroad.

""	Yang	"As for [MASK], it was officially declared that he had died a natural death. He had not been executed or beaten to death like some intellectuals, so there was no need to look into the specific circumstances of his last days. So many had died during those years.

the shikumen building	Yin	The murderer could be someone who had once lived in the house, someone who had stayed there, someone who had been there before, even though not as a resident, someone who had met other residents in the shikumen building—or even in [MASK]'s company.

""	Yin	If that were the case, [MASK] turned out to be a well-chosen target. The murder of a dissident writer might easily bring embarrassing pressure on the government. If the case was not solved, it could tarnish the image of the Party authorities.

""	Qiao	"So did I!" [MASK] snapped. "All those years, I stayed at the cadre school, working there. Have I gained anything? No, nothing. At the end of the Cultural Revolution, I was subjected to 'political examination' for two years.

Robert	Yu	That heartless man has not given a single penny to his family for more than two months." It was a family squabble, [MASK] guessed. It would furnish him with a timely excuse. "You don't have to accompany me.

Mrs. Hien	Chen	Once more, [MASK]'s glance followed the curve of the lane back to the comer where the shrimp woman was now stationed, sitting on the same bamboo stool, on the same spot, with a large bowl full of glistening fish scales at her feet.

Mrs. Gulch	Yin	"[MASK] was different because she hid herself in a shell of the past, or, to be more exact, like a snail, because her hiding place might have been her unbearable burden too. Most of the neighbors are biased against her because of her standoffishness."

Mao	Chen	Like many other people of his generation, [MASK] believed that Confucian ideology had caused rather than solved problems in the course of the history of Chinese civilization. Still, the chief inspector considered it only human nature to be a filial son.

""	Chen	"I will do my best." "What is Chief Inspector [MASK] up to? It's hard to understand. He insists on taking his vacation in spite of the urgency of solving this important case. And I don't know how long his vacation will last."

""	Wei	[MASK] added, "Oh, one more thing. About a year ago, somebody called to inquire about the publication date of the poetry collection's second edition. The call was transferred to me, and I did not have any information for him.

Mrs. Dalloway	Peiqin	[MASK] then laughed at herself, shaking her head at her own reflection in a small, slightly cracked mirror on the desk. When she looked up from the book again, it was almost two o'clock. She rose and paced about in the room.

Mao	Yin	He turned to a large picture, which must have been taken in 1967 or 1968, in the early years of the Cultural Revolution. Wearing a red armband, [MASK] stood on a stage delivering a speech, with high-ranking government officials seated in a row behind her in front of a red velvet curtain.

Moriarty	Yang	"But I just do not see how this can possibly be related to our investigation." "I have a feeling that there may be something in it. Coincidentally, I had a phone call earlier this evening, from a former colleague of [MASK]'s.

Jim	Heaven	[MASK] be my witness: I will make sure of it." Several neighbors heard him, but no one took him seriously at the time. People might say anything in a fit of anger, and soon forget about it.

""	Yin	As long as he was not actually seen leaving [MASK]'s room, he would not be in danger. The only possible risk was that one of her neighbors might recognize him. But since his previous visit, he had grown up, and that risk was slight.

Ponyboy	Chen	The morning brought with it consciousness of the scent of toasted bread, of fresh coffee, the sound of the telephone ringing, and then of a slender hand reaching for the receiver on the nightstand— "No!" [MASK] jumped out of bed, snatching the receiver as he rubbed his sleepy eyes.

""	Peiqin	"Not exactly. It could also have been a better book," [MASK] said. "I did not like the overly detailed introduction about Red Guard organizations. It's almost irrelevant. And then some of the descriptions of the affair put me off.

Winston	Yu	But in such a case, they should help—in the interests of the Party or whatever. Their attitude does not make sense," [MASK] said, as he put a green soya bean into his mouth, "unless they have something to hide from us."

""	Wan	"I can understand. In the early fifties, when my company had been taken away, together with the shikumen house, I thought it was the end of the world. I hung on because of my children. [MASK] is all alone here.

Mr. Tucker	Gu	So the traffic control office might make a suggestion to the city government. For [MASK], the grant of land in the heart of the city, in the name of cultural preservation, would save him a huge amount of money, and perhaps even the project itself.

Mr. Chang	Wan	But there's one marked difference. She practiced not only in the park, but in the lane too, especially on rainy days. [MASK] has never practiced here. That's not like a tai chi devotee. No, I don't think he told us the truth."

Mrs. Dalloway	Yang	It was not [MASK] alone who had to work there. In fact, a lot of people were sick. As for any possible negligence, now by hindsight, if we had known he was so seriously ill.... But perhaps he was not aware of it either.

Mother	Confucius	His buddy and his mother had in common an overanxiety about what they both called "the most urgent matter" in his personal life, what [MASK] regarded as the most important duty of a filial son. The worst unfilial thing is not to provide offspring for the family.

Jing	Yang	"Did you ever talk to [MASK] about it again?" "No. Pretty soon the Cultural Revolution broke out. All of us were like broken clay Buddhist idols drifting down the river— already too disintegrated to care about anybody else.

Ponyboy	Geng	"We will use these at home," she explained with a smile. "Then [MASK] can have our ration coupon." In their room, he helped himself to a bowl of green bean soup, which was supposed to keep the body's elements in balance.

Mao	Karma	[MASK]. By her actions during the Cultural Revolution, she brought her troubles upon herself." It was a cruel thing to say, whether one was Buddhist or not. The old professor's opinion must have been fixed there and then in the furnace of the Cultural Revolution.

Jim	Peiqin	The meal was quite good. A large portion of rice paddy eel slice fried with green onion and sesame oil on top of steamed white rice, plus a soup of pickled vegetable and shredded pork, for only five Yuan. Afterwards, he phoned [MASK] with a question.

Mrs. McTeague	Lanlan	[MASK] arrived with her purchases at around six thirty. This time she left the back door unlocked, as she chatted for a few minutes with the shrimp woman sitting on the comer, and went across the courtyard to unlatch the front door, which was her habit.

Ponyboy	Chen	I really appreciate this." "What is a friend for? You, too, are helping your friend." The arrival of their order prevented them from saying more, but [MASK] thought he had covered what was necessary. The lunch was not so satisfactory.

Zhang	Chen	"Things have changed a lot," [MASK] said. "Several years ago, the publisher would have paid just a one-time fee of about fifteen Yuan per thousand characters, or ten lines of poetry. So all in all, she would not have received much money."

Dave	Gu	We may have to make some minor changes later, of course. You have really done me a great favor." "You are flattering me again. But I have to ask a you a favor, [MASK]."

Hoover	Chen	The last sentence might have been added for face's sake. [MASK] had opposed the termination of the investigation, but the contrary decision might be a little more acceptable if, supposedly, it had been made by somebody outside the bureau.

""	Yu	Shortly after its publication, it was banned." "Let me help you," [MASK] said, carrying the basin out to the courtyard sink. She followed him outside in her slippers. "There are a lot of books about the Cultural Revolution.

Mrs. O'Doul	Yin	Except for a pair of broken eyeglasses, he looked like an old farmer, weather-beaten, white-haired like an owl, and with a pronounced suggestion of a stoop. As for [MASK], she was still in her early thirties.

Jingjing	Lanlan	What if she stepped away and has forgotten about it? Or, even, what if she is the criminal?" "You have a point." "She was the closest to the tingzijian room. She should have heard the moment [MASK] started screaming.

Mrs. Dalloway	Lanlan	The door was slightly ajar that morning. It was none of her business, but, as it was unusual, [MASK] noticed this. She bent to tie her shoelace, and peeping through the door, she saw something like an overturned chair.

Lanlan	Yin	He came to a stop at the sight of a public phone near the foreign language bookstore. Stepping into the booth, he made a phone call to the Shanghai Literature Publishing House. He wanted to find how much [MASK] had earned from publication of her novel.

""	Chen	"[MASK] is a clever man. He may try to do something that could be risky." "You mean he doesn't want to involve me in some risky business—with Internal Security lurking in the background." "Possibly.

Ponyboy	Qinqin	It was true. The old man actually produced plastic-wrapped slices of pork from his jacket pocket, put them into the soup, and waited for the celebrated soaking effect. "Is that pork really so special?" [MASK] asked in amusement.

Mao	Wan	It was a high political honor to be a Thought Propaganda Worker Team Member in those days. All the students and teachers were required to listen to whatever [MASK] said. He was a Comrade-Always-Politically-Correct, a model for them.

Michael	Yin	The digital timer on the microwave read 3:00 in green lights and there was a sharp beep. There was some strange correspondence between this sound and his new thought. Was it possible that those parts [MASK] had plagiarized came from an unpublished manuscript, and the original author was in no position to complain?

Mrs. O'Connor	Yu	She believed that she should try to do something, in addition to her restaurant work. She had to face the fact that the iron-bowl positions [MASK] and she had would, at most, satisfy their most basic material needs. The apartment fiasco had been the last straw.

Mrs. Wang	Peiqin	The shrimp woman was familiar with the shikumen building, and with the habits of the other residents. Obtaining a key would not have presented a problem to her, as she had mixed with her shikumen neighbors for many years. "There's no motive like poverty," [MASK] said.

""	Chen	"How true," [MASK] said. "There are so many perspectives from which one may examine one and the same thing, and you can choose the perspective you like." "The city government has approved the plan. The next step is to get loans from investment banks abroad.

Poirot	Yu	At this stage, it was a matter of routine to go on interviewing her neighbors, which was what [MASK] had been doing, and which, if he had been working on the case, he would be doing too. What else could he possibly do?

Mao	Chen	Now it was on the facade, the glitter and glory, an emphasis that justified the reversal of the Communist Revolution, although the Party authorities would have never acknowledged this. [MASK] was momentarily confused. History in textbooks was like colored balls in a juggler's hands.

Lao Gong	Yin	While he made a couple of hundred Yuan at first, he soon began to pile up losses as the money seemed to sink into a quagmire, and his creditors began hounding him, knocking at the door at all hours of the night. In desperation, he thought of approaching [MASK] again.

Ponyboy	Peiqin	[MASK] did not have to guess what "the same message of the howling wind" might have been. Or the "hungry, homeless crow." But the snowman did not lose itself in the scene: it kept its human shape, paradoxically, in snow.

Ponyboy	G)inqin	What else could he possibly do? He stared at the New World business proposal, and the business proposal stared back at him. [MASK] had called home, saying that he would sleep over at the apartment of a schoolmate.

""	Chen	f Chapter 5 [MASK] looked out of the window at the dull gray apartment complex in the morning light, and then down at the file on his desk, the New World proposal, and started typing on his electric typewriter. The project was ambitious.

Mike	Chen	"At home." "Let me call you back in five minutes." The cell phone bill for this month was going to be staggering. The police bureau would pay it, but [MASK] did not want the accountant to raise her eyebrows at him again.

Mrs. Wang	Yu	"Surely you can remember something," [MASK] said slowly, patiently, "if not every item." "Well, there was some cash, I now remember, some ten-Yuan and five-Yuan bills." "Did you take the money?"

Mrs. Dalloway	Peiqin	His friends and relatives had learned about his new apartment, all of them had congratulated him, and some of them had prepared for a house-warming party. Now what? But what worried him far more was the reaction of his wife, [MASK].

