Jane	Jean	that they had come already to the end of life . . . that, instead of beginning, it was already complete and perfect. “I meant to have you always . . . [MASK]. And after you came here and didn’t come over to see me ...

Mr. Darcy	Anson	And aloud she added, “You’re her father, [MASK]; why don’t you speak?” “It’s better for you. I’ve no influence with her.” “I have spoken,” she said, thinking bitterly that he could never guess what she meant.

Daddy	Anson	But she was hurt. She kept thinking again and again of what [MASK] had said. . . . “In any case, I will not have my daughter marry a shanty Irishman. There is enough of that in the family

""	Therese	“I’m worrying because I think you’ll be so hard to please.” Again she laughed. “That’s true. That’s why I’m going to take my time.” “And you’re glad to have [MASK] here?” “Of course.

Daisy	Olivia	“You see, I haven’t long to live. I’ve no reason to expect to live forever and I want to leave things in perfect order, as they have always been.” To [MASK], sitting in silence, the conversation became suddenly painful.

Jim	O’Hara	She wanted to breathe deeply the fresh salty atmosphere, to run, to escape somewhere. Indeed, for a moment she succumbed to a sense of panic, as she had done on the other hot night when [MASK] followed her into the garden.

Scout	Sybil	[MASK] had a way of looking piercingly at a person, as if her violet eyes tried to bore quite through all pretense and unveil the truth. She had a power of honesty and simplicity that was completely disarming, and she used it now, smiling at her mother, candidly.

Darling	Olivia	[MASK] sighed. “No, I don’t think so. ... I think you know exactly what I mean.” (She knew the family game of pretending never to understand a truthful, unpleasant statement.) But this, too, he refused to answer.

Mrs. Dalloway	Michael	What happened immediately afterward she was never able to remember very clearly. She found herself joining the little procession; she knew that [MASK] was with her, and that there could be no doubt of the tragedy. . . .

Mrs. Dalloway	Therese	I’m bored to death. I only came, in the first place, because I thought [MASK] ought to know her own people. But it’s no good. She’ll have none of them. I see now how like her father she is.

Mrs. Ramsay	Sabine	Long ago [MASK] had come to understand that one got a savor out of life by casting overboard all the little rules which clutter up existence, all the ties, and beliefs and traditions in which she had been given a training so intense and severe that in the end she had turned a rebel.

Jim	Olivia	Why should you want a divorce? We are well off, content, comfortable, happy. . . She interrupted him, asking, “Are we?” “What is it you expect, [MASK] ... to live always in a sort of romantic glow?

Mrs. O’Hara	Olivia	The old lady was saying, “You all seem to have grown very fond of this man O’Hara.” (What was she driving at now?) Aloud, [MASK] said, “Wliy not? He’s agreeable, intelligent . . . even distinguished in his way.”

Mrs. Danvers	Olivia	Standing in the shadow, she beckoned; and [MASK], rising quietly, went out into the hall, closing the door behind her. There, in the dim light, she saw that the old woman had been crying and was shaking in fright.

Jane	Sabine	“All the same, [MASK] ought never to have come back here. . . .” She saw now that the talk was turning back into the inevitable channel of futility where they would go round and round, like squirrels in a cage, arriving nowhere.

Dave	Sabine	What is he like?” “[MASK] knows about him.” “It’s that which makes me afraid. . . . He’s out of her world and I’m not so sure that I like it.

Mrs. Dalloway	Sabine	[MASK], who had not been to a funeral in the twenty-five years since her father’s death, had climbed the stony hill to the Durham town burial-ground twice in as many days. . . . The rector was speaking again. . . .

Ponyboy	Olivia	He became suddenly confidential, closing one eye. “D’you know what I think is the matter? I’ve been watching him and I’ve got an idea.” He waited until [MASK] said, “No ... I haven’t the least idea.”

Jane	Olivia	but she’s always been there, waiting, full of gentleness and sympathy. She’s been ill most of the time you’ve known her . . . old and ill. You can’t imagine how beautiful she once was.” “I know,” said [MASK] softly.

Mrs. Ramsay	Olivia	And at last she said, “He was a queer man. He was the last of the great Puritans. There aren’t any more. None of the rest of us believe anything. We only pretend. . . .” But [MASK] scarcely heard her.

""	Sybil	It’s about [MASK].” There was a little echo of humor in his voice that touched and disarmed her as it always did. It struck her that he was Still young enough to be confident that everything ■ in life would go exactly as he wished it. . . .

Mrs. Dalloway	Olivia	interested in the past, [MASK]?” “Yes.” “Yes, she only had one child . . . and then she was drowned when he was only a year old. He was my grandfather.” Again he looked at her sharply.

""	Sabine	... I can’t go on any longer.” Taking up the yellow parasol, [MASK] asked, “Do you expect me for dinner to-night?” “Of course, more than ever to-night. . . . I’m sorry you’ve

Mary	Higgins	Lately the same thought had come to her again and again—if only she could be simple like [MASK] or the kitchen-maid. Such a state seemed to her at the moment the most desirable thing in the world.

Daisy	Michael	It was the strength of one who was more than right; it was the strength of one who believed. She had a fierce impulse to turn from him and to run swiftly, recklessly, across the wet meadows toward [MASK], leaving forever behind her the placid, beautiful old house beneath the elms.

""	Anson	2 [MASK] was not to be reached all the morning at the office; he had gone, so his secretary said, to a meeting of the Society of Guardians of Young Working Girls without Homes and left express word that he was not to be disturbed.

Mrs. Ramsay	Sabine	She came as the Official Welcomer of the Community, with hope in her heart that she would find [MASK] a returned prodigal, a wrecked woman, ravaged by time and experience, who for twenty years had ignored them all and now returned, a broken and humbled creature, hungry for kindness.

Jim	Michael	and I can’t otherwise. It’s our affair, mine and [MASK]’s . . . and I’m going to settle it, to-night perhaps, as soon as I can have a talk with him. ... I can’t go on any longer.”

Mrs. Dalloway	Olivia	the people to whom she belongs. She hates us. . . . She can barely speak to me in a civil fashion.” [MASK] smiled quietly and tossed her cigarette into the ashes beneath the cold steel engraving of the Signing.

Jane	Sybil	We’ve talked it all over, [MASK] and I . . . and we’re agreed. We love each other. We’re going to be married.” Watching the young, ardent face, she thought, “It’s a nice face in which there is nothing mean or nasty.

Mr. Darcy	Olivia	A gentleman with a bald head and a polished face?” [MASK] looked at her sharply. “How could you know that?” “Because I sent him, my dear . . . for the same reason that I’m here now . . .

Mrs. Dalloway	Olivia	They had a way of descending upon the household in the long evenings when all the family sat reading in the old drawingroom—as if there were figures unseen who stood watching. “If he wanted to be buried here,” said [MASK], “I can see no reason why he should not be.”

Jim	Anson	“Do you mean,” he stammered, “that my father has ever behaved . . he choked and then added, “dishonorably.” “[MASK] ... I feel strangely like being honest tonight . . . just for once . . . just for once.”

Mrs. Dalloway	Olivia	It’s why she loves the calamities of other people, because she’s never had any of her own. Not even her husband’s death was a calamity. It left her free, completely free of troubles as she had always wanted to be.” And then a strange thing happened to [MASK].

Ponyboy	Olivia	She’s old now, and it doesn’t really matter. It’s not as if she were young with all her life before her.” Almost without thinking, [MASK] answered, “I know that.” He looked up quickly. “Know it?”

Mrs. Dalloway	eaves«that	[MASK] drew her sharply back to a consciousness of where she was and why she was there; and, focusing all her attention, she was able to make out presently a short, stocky little figure, and a white face peering out from among the branches, watching the dancers who moved about inside the house.

Mrs. Ramsay	Olivia	[MASK] took one of the thin old hands in hers and said, as if she were talking to a little child, “I know what we’ll do. To-morrow you write it out on a bit of paper and then I’ll find it and bring it to you.”

Mrs. Danvers	Sybil	And as she sat there, the sounds from [MASK]’s room across the hall died away and at last the night grew still save for the sound of her son’s slow breathing and the familiar ghostly creakings of the old house.

Jane	Sabine	At last she said with a sigh, “I find it an amazing world. I don’t know what it is coming to.” “Nor I,” replied [MASK] with an air of complete agreement and sympathy.

Mrs. Dashwood	Therese	He won’t marry [MASK]. I don’t think you know how ill he is. ... I don’t think, sometimes, that you really know anything about him at all.” “I always talk with the doctors.”

Ponyboy	Olivia	She’s only a child . . . yet.” [MASK] was silent, but beneath the silence there ran a torrent of cold, rebellious thoughts. Being a Pentland, then, was not a matter of blood: it was an idea, even an ideal.

Darcy	Jack	She’ll never give it up.” “But it’s [MASK] who will own it, and I’m not so sure about him.” Unconsciously she sighed, knowing now that she was pretending again, being dishonest.

Jane	Olivia	All the same, I’m sure I’ll know the man when I see him.” She leaned forward and said earnestly, “Couldn’t you tell when you were a girl?” “Yes,” said [MASK] softly. “I could tell.”

Ponyboy	Olivia	You can bring her back.” At the sound of her voice, [MASK] wanted to cry out, “No, don’t go. You mustn’t leave me now . . . alone. You mustn’t go away like this!”

Mrs. Dalloway	Olivia	For a moment his lips moved silently and in agitation, as if it were impossible for him to answer things so preposterous as those his wife had just spoken. At last he was able to say, “I think you must have lost your mind, [MASK] . . .

Jim	Anson	He could only see the request as a humiliation of his own precious dignity. He managed to grin, trying to turn the request to mockery, and said, “Have you lost your mind?” “No, [MASK], not for a moment.

Dave	Sybil	even that. But it will do no good.” For a time they were both silent, caught in a profound feeling of hopelessness, and presently she said, “Can you go on like this for a little time . . . until [MASK] is gone?”

Mrs. Ramsay	Cassie	In some way she found in tragedy her proper role and she managed to draw most of the light from the other actors to herself. She must have known that people went away from the house saying, “[MASK] rises to such occasions beautifully.

Mrs. Dalloway	Olivia	“No. It’s impossible to say. . . .” “A thing like this is likely to come only once to a woman.” (“Whv does she keep repeating the very things that I’ve been fighting all along,” thought [MASK].)

Jane	Jean	“She’s the sort of woman who has existed since the beginning of time. There’s some mystery about her early life. It has something to do with [MASK]’s father. I don’t think she was happy with him. He’s never mentioned.

Jane	Olivia	When I die, you’ll be the head of the family. . . . Surely, you know that . . . already.” (“I,” thought [MASK], “I who have been so giddy, who am planning to betray you all.

Jane	Therese	She saw that it had been a silly idea from the beginning; but she found satisfaction in the knowledge that she had molded [MASK]’s life so that no one could ever hurt her as they had hurt her mother.

Jane	Cassie	more like her than you can imagine. It’s why they hate each other so. She’s [MASK] turned inside out, as you might say. They’d both sacrifice everything for the sake of stirring up some trouble or calamity that would interest them.

Jim	Olivia	She thought, “And I have always believed him hard and cold and disapproving.” She was beginning to fathom the great strength that lay in his fierce isolation, the strength of a man who had always been alone. “And you, [MASK]?”

Mrs. Ramsay	Sabine	She is the best, the most wonderful woman.” She began to wrap herself once more in kindliness and charity and forgiveness. ‘‘Only she seems to me to be a little queer lately.” [MASK]’s artificially crimson mouth took on a slow smile.

Mrs. Dashwood	Sabine	It was property lost forever that should have gone into the family fortune. [MASK] was opening the letter slowly, allowing the paper to crackle ominously, as if she knew that every crackle ran painfully up and down the spine of the old lady.

Ponyboy	Olivia	[MASK] and I are settling it.” But she did not retreat. Standing there, she held her ground and continued the tirade, working herself up to a pitch of hysteria. “I won’t be put aside. No one ever tells me anything.

Mrs. Pentland	Anson	Besides, there has never been a divorce in the Pentland family. There have been worse things,” she said bitterly, “but never a divorce and [MASK] won’t be the first to break any tradition.” “Will you talk to him?”

Jane	Sybil	“No,” said [MASK] swiftly. She had begun to tremble a little, frightened but wildly happy. “Was it because . . . because. . . .” He groped for a moment for words and, finding them, went quickly on, “because you feel as I do?”

Mrs. Dalloway	Olivia	Again a silence, while [MASK] thought bitterly, “He knows that I’m lying. He knows that what I’ve said is not the truth.” Aloud she said, “You’ll go to sleep now—like a good boy.”

Mrs. Dalloway	Sybil	“That’s right. ... I think [MASK] would like that.” She sighed, in spite of herself, vaguely envious of these two. “But you’re so young. How can you know for certain.”

Jim	Jean	In a way, she came to understand the story of [MASK]’s mother more from watching him than by listening to his long explanation. There must be in her that same determination and ardor that was in her son ... a thing in its way irresistible.

Jane	Olivia	When he talks, he makes sense. But don’t worry; T shan’t marry him.” “I was interested,” said [MASK], “because you do see him more than any one about here.”

Mrs. Dalloway	Higgins	Once before a girl had come to her in trouble—a Polish girl, whom she helped and sent away because she could not see that forcing [MASK] to marry her would have brought anything but misery for both of them.

Mrs. Dalloway	Sybil	One knew her at once for a great lady. It was impossible to believe that she was nearly forty and the mother of [MASK] and a boy of fifteen. Circumstance and a wisdom of her own had made of her a woman who seemed inactive and self-effacing.

""	Sybil	“I shan’t let it make any difference, so long as [MASK] will have me, but, you see, it’s very hard to explain, because it isn’t the way it seems. I want you to understand that my mother is a wonderful woman.

Mrs. Curley	Olivia	I will not have my daughter marry a shanty Irishman. . . . There is enough of that in the family.” For a moment [MASK] leaned against the door-sill, her dark eyes wide with astonishment, as if she found it impossible to believe what she had heard.

Jane	Olivia	She was strong, too, in her knowledge that whatever happened she ([MASK]) was the one person whom they could not afford to lose, because they had depended on her for too long. But she was hurt.

Ponyboy	Higgins	“You haven’t spoken to her? You haven’t told her anything?” “No. . . . But you don’t need to tell her such things. She has a way of knowing.” After a moment he said, “Why, even [MASK] wants it.

Rodolphe	O’Hara	When she was honest, the answer was always the same . . . that [MASK] had come to occupy the larger part of her interest in existence. In the most secret part of her soul, she no longer pretended that her feeling for him was only one of friendship.

Mrs. Dalloway	O’Hara	Once or twice she had caught a glimpse of him crossing the meadows toward [MASK]’s shining chimneys or going down the road that led through the marshes to the sea—a tall, red-haired young man who walked with a slight limp.

Lady Bracknell	Sybil	“You know [MASK], then?” “We ride together every morning. . . . We met one morning by chance along the path by the river and since then we’ve gone nearly every day.” “She’s a charming girl. . . .

Daisy	Olivia	“Has any one in the world got everything?” “It is [MASK]’s fault if she hasn’t everything. All the materials are there. She has a good husband ... a husband who never looks at other women.”

Jane	Higgins	To her he seems an old man. ... We mustn’t forget how young she is.” “He’s not a bad sort,” replied the old man. “I’ve grown fond of him, and [MASK] thinks he’s a fine fellow.

Mrs. Ramsay	Sabine	She was trying to pity her. By being full of pity the old woman would try to break down her defenses and gain possession of her. [MASK]’s green eyes took one hard, glinting look. “Did you ever see my husband?” she asked.

Jim	Sabine	Already he himself had begun to see this. He had begun to understand that the victory was so easy that the battle held little savor for him. Moments of satisfaction such as that which had overtaken him as he sat talking to [MASK] were growing more and more rare . . .

Mrs. Ramsay	Sybil	Perhaps she was even wrong in having made of [MASK] a lady—a lady in the old sense of the word—because there seemed to be no place for a lady in the scheme of life as it had existed at the dance the night before.

Dallas	Olivia	Besides, [MASK] is an outsider, really. She’s never understood our world.” And then, shaking her head sadly, she would murmur, “There’ll be trouble.. An- son, when your father dies, if you don’t show some backbone.

Jane	Olivia	They rode on slowly and in silence while [MASK] thought wearily round and round the dark, tangled maze in which she found herself. There seemed no wav out of it. She was caught, shut in a prison, at the very moment when her chance of happiness had come.

Daisy	Michael	She had no desire to argue with him. She wanted only to be left in peace, to go away to her room and lie there alone in the darkness, for she knew now that [MASK] was not coming.

Jim	Sabine	“They’re the last, aren’t they?” “The last until next spring.” “Next spring . . .” he repeated with an air of speaking to himself. “Next spring. . . .” And then abruptly, “The other thing was about [MASK].

Mrs. Dashwood	Anson	“Are you sure of that?” “Why should I make up such a ridiculous lie? Besides, your father and I get on very well. You know that.” It was a mild thrust which had its success, for [MASK] turned away angrily.

Mrs. Dalloway	Sabine	They were cousins of ours, in a way, just as they were cousins of [MASK]’s. He had gone to school with her father and they belonged to the same club and she was an only child with a prospect of coming into a great fortune.

Ponyboy	Sabine	And again the easy tears welled up. (“Oh,” thought [MASK], “you don’t catch me that way. You won’t put me back where I once was. You won’t even have a chance to meddle in my life.”)

Daisy	Sabine	“Sometimes,” she said, “I think [MASK] is unhappy. . . “No . . . not that. . . . She’s beyond happiness or unhappiness. There’s something hard in her and unrelenting ... as hard as a cut diamond.

Mrs. Dalloway	Anson	“She lay there all those years on the sofa covered with a shawl, trying to arrange the lives of every one about her. She killed [MASK]’s independence and ruined my happiness. She terrorized her husband until in the end he died to escape her.

Daisy	Olivia	Undiscouraged, she went on. “[MASK] looks bad, too, tonight . . . very tired and worn. I don’t like those circles under her eyes. . . . I’ve thought for a long time that she was unhappy about something.”

Mrs. McBride	Sabine	“The nurse doesn’t know. She must have heard some one speaking the name under her window. The nurse says that people in her condition have curious ways of discovering such things . . . like a sixth sense.” “Do you want me to ask [MASK]?

Jane	Sabine	He appeared to be lost in deep thought, his face contorted with a kind of grim concentration. “I know what has happened,” he said presently. “It is [MASK]. She should never have come back here. She was like that always . . .

Ponyboy	Olivia	Why was it that I should find those letters which had lain safe and hidden for so long?”) He was talking again quietly, the bony fingers weaving in and out their nervous futile pattern. “You see, [MASK]. . . .

""	Olivia	On one of these evenings, when [MASK]’s eyes had grown weary of reading, she closed her book and, turning toward her husband, called his name. When he did not answer her at once she spoke to him again, and waited until he looked up.

Jim	Olivia	The whole story moved against a background of family . . . the Pentland family. There were constant references to cousins and uncles and aunts and their suspicions and interference. “It must have begun,” thought [MASK], “even in those days.”

Mrs. Dalloway	Sabine	but she had come long since to see it as it was, as [MASK] had seen it while she stood in the window of the writing-room, frightened by the sudden queer apparition of the little groom—a country beautiful, hard and cold, and a little barren.

Jane	Sabine	‘ [MASK],” she said, without looking at her, “I’m fond of you. You know that. Please don’t talk any more about this . . . please, because I want to go on being fond of you . . .

Dave	Jack	But if you want the truth, I think it’s because you’ve never been a very good father. Sometimes I’ve thought you never wanted children. You’ve never paid much attention to them . . . not even to [MASK] . . . while he was alive.

Dave	Anson	The men she knew—[MASK]’s friends—never said such things. She doubted whether they would ever notice such a night, and if they did notice it, they would be a little ashamed of having done anything so unusual.

Daisy	Anson	We’re happier than most.” “No,” she said slowly. “I don’t think happiness has ever meant much to you, [MASK]. Perhaps you’re above such things as happiness and unhappiness. Perhaps you’re more fortunate than most of us.

Dave	Michael	He’s never been like this about a woman before. He’d do it just now. . . . That’s the way he’s feeling. You don’t want to see him ruin himself any more than I do ... a clever man like [MASK].

Daisy	Olivia	What have 1 to do with it?” “That’s what I’m coming to, [MASK] dear. . . . It’s because I’m leaving control of the whole fortune to you.” Suddenly, fiercely, she wanted none of it.

Mrs. Dashwood	Sybil	“So you have plans for her already. You’ve settled it?” “Of course, nothing is settled. I’m only thinking of it with [MASK]’s welfare in view. If she married one of those boys she’d know what she was getting.

