Mrs. Dashwood	Izz	"O my God! did you never guess it till now!" By-and-by they reached a branch road to a village. "I must get down. I live out there," said [MASK] abruptly, never having spoken since her avowal.

Jane	Felix	Why should you think, [MASK], that I am likely to drop my high thinking and my moral ideals?" "Well, I fancied, from the tone of your letters and our conversation--it may be fancy only--that you were somehow losing intellectual grasp.

Estella	Tess	"Dear me! what will she think of me, so altered as I am!" he said to himself; and the door opened. [MASK] appeared on the threshold--not at all as he had expected to see her--bewilderingly otherwise, indeed.

Ponyboy	Tess	"My good God! that ever I should ha' lived to say it, but I say it again, you little fool!" [MASK] was convulsed with weeping, the tension of so many days having relaxed at last. "I know it--I know--

Jim	Angel	she whispered with a dry mouth. "I have forgiven you for the same!" And, as he did not answer, she said again-- "Forgive me as you are forgiven! _I_ forgive YOU, [MASK]." "You--yes, you do."

Mrs. Dashwood	Sighs	[MASK] were expended on the wish that she had taken more notice of the tunes he played on his harp, that she had inquired more curiously of him which were his favourite ballads among those the country-girls sang.

Mrs. Joe	Tess	"I'll think it over," said [MASK], leaving the room. "Well, she's made a conquest o' the younger branch of us, straight off," continued the matron to her husband, "and she's a fool if she don't follow it up."

Farmer	Clare	The country custom of unreserved comradeship out of doors during betrothal was the only custom she knew, and to her it had no strangeness; though it seemed oddly anticipative to [MASK] till he saw how normal a thing she, in common with all the other dairy-folk, regarded it.

Mrs. Dalloway	Tess	The little ones kneeling round, their sleepy eyes blinking and red, awaited her preparations full of a suspended wonder which their physical heaviness at that hour would not allow to become active. The most impressed of them said: "Be you really going to christen him, [MASK]?"

James	Angel	"No, father; I cannot underwrite Article Four (leave alone the rest), taking it 'in the literal and grammatical sense' as required by the Declaration; and, therefore, I can't be a parson in the present state of affairs," said [MASK].

Mr. Darcy	Izz	It was neither a contempt for her nature, nor the probable state of her heart, which deterred him. No; it was a sense that, despite her love, as corroborated by [MASK]'s admission, the facts had not changed.

Mrs. Moore	Angel	But I do entreat you to endeavour to keep as much as possible in touch with moral ideals. Farming, of course, means roughing it externally; but high thinking may go with plain living, nevertheless." "Of course it may," said [MASK].

Lady Macbeth	Tess	There still faintly beamed from the woman's features something of the freshness, and even the prettiness, of her youth; rendering it probable that the personal charms which [MASK] could boast of were in main part her mother's gift, and therefore unknightly, unhistorical.

Mrs. Ramsay	Tess	These were the first words of antagonism. To fling elaborate sarcasms at [MASK], however, was much like flinging them at a dog or cat. The charms of their subtlety passed by her unappreciated, and she only received them as inimical sounds which meant that anger ruled.

Jane	Tess	"Not a bit of it. But I didn't want to hurt the gentleman's feelings--not I." In the meantime the lovers were driving onward. "Could we put off our wedding till a little later?" [MASK] asked in a dry dull voice.

Mrs. Poyser	Chant	It is true that my neighbour [MASK]'s daughter had lately caught up the fashion of the younger clergy round about us for decorating the Communion-table--altar, as I was shocked to hear her call it one day--with flowers and other stuff on festival occasions.

Robert	d'Urberville	And as he asked the question a disappointment which was not entirely the disappointment of thwarted duty crossed [MASK]'s face. It was unmistakably a symptom that something of his old passion for her had been revived; duty and desire ran hand-in-hand.

Jim	Marian	[MASK], as was the case every afternoon at this time on account of the bottle, began to feel in a romantic vein. "I should not have thought it of him--never!" she said in a dreamy tone. "And I loved him so!

Mrs. Dashwood	Tess	[MASK] at length joined them, without lighting a candle. "This is the last night that we shall sleep here, dears, in the house where we were born," she said quickly. "We ought to think of it, oughtn't we?"

Jane	Tess	she said in a dreamy tone. "And I loved him so! I didn't mind his having YOU. But this about Izz is too bad!" [MASK], in her start at the words, narrowly missed cutting off a finger with the bill-hook.

Jim	Prince	[MASK] lay alongside, still and stark; his eyes half open, the hole in his chest looking scarcely large enough to have let out all that had animated him. "'Tis all my doing--all mine!" the girl cried, gazing at the spectacle.

Mrs. Dashwood	Clare	The conversation at the table mixed in with his phantasmal orchestra till he thought: "What a fluty voice one of those milkmaids has! I suppose it is the new one." [MASK] looked round upon her, seated with the others. She was not looking towards him.

Rodrigo	Tess	"Well, I have betrayed my feeling, [MASK], at last," said he, with a curious sigh of desperation, signifying unconsciously that his heart had outrun his judgement. "That I--love you dearly and truly I need not say.

Mrs. Dalloway	Clare	But the reasoning is somewhat musty; lovers and husbands have gone over the ground before to-day. [MASK] had been harsh towards her; there is no doubt of it. Men are too often harsh with women they love or have loved; women with men.

Mrs. Dashwood	Retty	And yet that same hungry nature had fought against this, but too feebly, and the natural result had followed. "I will never stand in your way, nor in the way of either of you!" she declared to [MASK] that night in the bedroom (her tears running down).

Jane	Marian	"I know it, [MASK]." "You've lost it travelling." "I've not lost it. The truth is, I don't care anything about my looks; and so I didn't put it on." "

Mrs. Dashwood	Tess	"It might have been a carriage for her own kin!" Having at last taken her course [MASK] was less restless and abstracted, going about her business with some self-assurance in the thought of acquiring another horse for her father by an occupation which would not be onerous.

Jane	Clare	They retraced their steps, but it was half an hour before they stood without the entrance-gate as earlier. He then requested her to stay where she was, whilst he went to see who was within. She sat down among the bushes within the gate, and [MASK] crept towards the house.

Mrs. Ramsay	Clare	[MASK] performed the irrelevant act of stirring the fire; the intelligence had not even yet got to the bottom of him. After stirring the embers he rose to his feet; all the force of her disclosure had imparted itself now. His face had withered.

Casterbridge	Durbeyfield	Over the tester of the bedstead was a beautiful traceried window, of many lights, its date being the fifteenth century. It was called the d'Urberville Window, and in the upper part could be discerned heraldic emblems like those on [MASK]'s old seal and spoon.

Daisy	Tess	Distinction does not consist in the facile use of a contemptible set of conventions, but in being numbered among those who are true, and honest, and just, and pure, and lovely, and of good report--as you are, my [MASK]."

Mrs. Ramsay	Car	All looked at [MASK]. Her gown was a light cotton print, and from the back of her head a kind of rope could be seen descending to some distance below her waist, like a Chinaman's queue. "'Tis her hair falling down," said another.

Jane	Angel	And though new love was to be held partly responsible for this, it was not solely so. Many besides [MASK] have learnt that the magnitude of lives is not as to their external displacements, but as to their subjective experiences.

""	Retty	But she saw in a few moments that there was no malice in their mood. They could scarcely feel as a loss what they had never expected to have. Their condition was objective, contemplative. "He's going to marry her!" murmured [MASK], never taking eyes off

Mr. Punch	Durbeyfield	"No, thank you--not this evening, [MASK]. You've had enough already." Concluding thus, the parson rode on his way, with doubts as to his discretion in retailing this curious bit of lore.

Snow White	Tess	No sooner did the dark queen hear the soberer richer note of [MASK] among those of the other work-people than a long-smouldering sense of rivalry inflamed her to madness. She sprang to her feet and closely faced the object of her dislike.

Mrs. Dashwood	Tess	[MASK] was quite serious, painfully serious by this time; and she tried--ultimately and unexpectedly emitting a real round sound. The momentary pleasure of success got the better of her; her eyes enlarged, and she involuntarily smiled in his face. "That's it!

Lady	Tess	He hoped she would remove that prohibition soon. He proposed that the couple should take [MASK]'s own name, d'Urberville, as uncorrupted. It was better than her husbands's. He asked if any letter had come from her that day.

Mr. Bingley	Angel	Part of the remainder she was obliged to expend in winter clothing, leaving only a nominal sum for the whole inclement season at hand. When the last pound had gone, a remark of [MASK]'s that whenever she required further resources she was to apply to his father, remained to be considered.

Dorothea	Tess	Where could [MASK] possibly be, a cottage-girl, his young wife, amidst all this wealth and fashion? The more he pondered, the more was he puzzled. Were there any cows to milk here? There certainly were no fields to till.

Jim	Clare	They stood fixed, their baffled hearts looking out of their eyes with a joylessness pitiful to see. Both seemed to implore something to shelter them from reality. "Ah--it is my fault!" said [MASK]. But he could not get on.

Mary	Angel	No sooner had the hour of three struck and whizzed, than she left her room and ran to the dairyman's door; then up the ladder to [MASK]'s, calling him in a loud whisper; then woke her fellow-milkmaids.

Daisy	Angel	As they walked along the hillside [MASK]'s former feeling revived in him--that whatever their advantages by comparison with himself, neither saw or set forth life as it really was lived. Perhaps, as with many men, their opportunities of observation were not so good as their opportunities of expression.

Jim	Clare	She did not know that [MASK] had followed her round, and that he sat under his cow watching her. The stillness of her head and features was remarkable: she might have been in a trance, her eyes open, yet unseeing.

Peter	Angel	He unstrapped his knapsack, put it, with his stick, on the hedge-bank, and opened the gate. "What are you going to do, [MASK]?" asked the eldest. "I am inclined to go and have a fling with them.

Ponyboy	Prince	She made him a sort of nest in front of the hives, in such a manner that he could not fall, and, taking the reins into her own hands, jogged on as before. [MASK] required but slight attention, lacking energy for superfluous movements of any sort.

Mr. Tulliver	Tess	"They was formerly styled 'sir', like my own ancestry," he said, "though nowadays their true style, strictly speaking, is 'clerk' only." As [MASK] had wished that no great publicity should be given to the event, he had mentioned no particulars.

Mrs. Dalloway	Joan	For myself, I was never there." It was apparent that [MASK] spoke the truth in this, and he pressed her no further. "Are you in want of anything?" he said gently. "No, sir," she replied.

Mr. Darcy	Tess	I don't mind going and seeing her, but you must leave it to me about asking for help. And don't go thinking about her making a match for me--it is silly." "Very well said, [MASK]!" observed her father sententiously.

Jim	Tess	The cans of new milk were unladen in the rain, [MASK] getting a little shelter from a neighbouring holly tree. Then there was the hissing of a train, which drew up almost silently upon the wet rails, and the milk was rapidly swung can by can into the truck.

Pip	Clare	[MASK] was so pained and perplexed that he ran after and caught her in the passage. "Tell me, tell me!" he said, passionately clasping her, in forgetfulness of his curdy hands: "do tell me that you won't belong to anybody but me!"

Mrs. Ramsay	Distress	Her face was dry and pale, as though she regarded herself in the light of a murderess. V The haggling business, which had mainly depended on the horse, became disorganized forthwith. [MASK], if not penury, loomed in the distance.

Mrs. Dairyman	Clare	The season meanwhile was drawing onward to the equinox, and though it was still fine, the days were much shorter. The dairy had again worked by morning candlelight for a long time; and a fresh renewal of [MASK]'s pleading occurred one morning between three and four.

Mrs. Dalloway	Tess	Silence seemed, on the face of it, best for her adored one's happiness: silence it should be. Thus steadied by a command from the only person in the world who had any shadow of right to control her action, [MASK] grew calmer.

Jim	Clare	Between [MASK] and the window was the table at which his companions sat, their munching profiles rising sharp against the panes; while to the side was the milk-house door, through which were visible the rectangular leads in rows, full to the brim with the morning's milk.

Mrs. Dashwood	Jenny	"Well, a little more, or a little less, 'twas a thousand pities that it should have happened to she, of all others. But 'tis always the comeliest! The plain ones be as safe as churches--hey, [MASK]?"

Jim	Abraham	" murmured [MASK] through his tears. In silence they waited through an interval which seemed endless. At length a sound, and an approaching object, proved to them that the driver of the mail-car had been as good as his word.

Arthur	Tess	He emitted a laboured breath, as if the scene were getting rather oppressive to his heart, or to his conscience, or to his gentility. "Well, you are absurdly melancholy, [MASK]. I have no reason for flattering you now, and I can say plainly that you need not be so sad.

Gerty	Shaston	No doubt a mampus of volk of our own rank will be down here in their carriages as soon as 'tis known. Your father learnt it on his way hwome from [MASK], and he has been telling me the whole pedigree of the matter."

Hamilton	Angel	In the before-mentioned journey by mules through the interior of the country, another man rode beside him. [MASK]'s companion was also an Englishman, bent on the same errand, though he came from another part of the island.

""	Angel	"I shan't ask you to let me live with you, [MASK], because I have no right to! I shall not write to mother and sisters to say we be married, as I said I would do; and I shan't finish the good-hussif'

the jewels	Clare	Where [MASK] had deposited them she did not know, and it mattered little, if it were true that she could only use and not sell them. Even were they absolutely hers it would be passing mean to enrich herself by a legal title to them which was not essentially hers at all.

Gerty	Lord	"[MASK], 'tis wonderful what a body can get used to o' that sort in time!" "A little more than persuading had to do wi' the coming o't, I reckon. There were they that heard a sobbing one night last year in

Gerty	Tess	And perceiving that she stood quite confounded: "Never mind me. I am Mr d'Urberville. Have you come to see me or my mother?" This embodiment of a d'Urberville and a namesake differed even more from what [MASK] had expected than the house and grounds had differed.

Mrs. Mallard	Marian	She had walked more than a dozen miles the previous evening, had gone to bed at midnight, and had risen again at five o'clock. [MASK] alone, thanks to her bottle of liquor and her stoutness of build, stood the strain upon back and arms without suffering.

Elizabeth	Tess	"They are all yours," said she, very prettily, and endeavoured to be gayer than she was. He had not been displeased with her thoughtfulness on such an occasion; it was what every sensible woman would show: but [MASK] knew that she had been thoughtful to excess, and struggled against it.

Mrs. Dalloway	Tess	Then, without a sigh, she turned her attention to the room, and began clearing the table and setting it in order. The charwoman soon came. Her presence was at first a strain upon [MASK], but afterwards an alleviation.

Tess	Alec	I thought I worshipped on the mountains, but I find I still serve in the groves! Ha! ha!" "O [MASK] d'Urberville! what does this mean? What have I done!" "Done?" he said, with a soulless sneer in the word.

Alice	Angel	"But what shall I tell the dairyman's wife?" said [MASK]. "The truth, of course," said his father. "I rather wanted to say we enjoyed the mead and the black-puddings very much.

Mrs. Poyser	Marian	They gently led her back to the side of her bed, where they kissed her warmly. "You are best for'n," said [MASK]. "More ladylike, and a better scholar than we, especially since he had taught 'ee so much.

Jane	Tess	But--I must put up with that. ... I heard you had gone away; nobody knew where. [MASK], you wonder why I have followed you?" "I do, rather; and I would that you had not, with all my heart!"

Lady Audley	Tess	The three o'clock sun shone full upon him, and the strange enervating conviction that her seducer confronted her, which had been gaining ground in [MASK] ever since she had heard his words distinctly, was at last established as a fact indeed. END OF PHASE

Mrs. Dalloway	Tess	To all humankind besides, [MASK] was only a passing thought. Even to friends she was no more than a frequently passing thought. If she made herself miserable the livelong night and day it was only this much to them--"Ah, she makes herself unhappy.

Lady Arabella	Tess	[MASK], surprised beyond measure, slid farther back still on her seat, at which he urged the horse anew, and rocked her the more. "Will nothing else do?" she cried at length, in desperation, her large eyes staring at him like those of a wild animal.

Mrs. Cuxsom	Jack	'You call me old witch, do ye, you deceiver!' says she, 'when ye ought to ha' been calling me mother-law these last five months!' And on went the churn, and [MASK]'s bones rattled round again.

Mrs. Dashwood	Tess	But no--no, dearest; I think I love you best in the wing-bonnet and cotton-frock--yes, better than in this, well as you support these dignities." [MASK]'s sense of her striking appearance had given her a flush of excitement, which was yet not happiness.

Mrs. Bennet	Tess	[MASK] at length consented to go. Her first experience of the journey afforded her more enjoyment than she had expected, the hilariousness of the others being quite contagious after her monotonous attention to the poultry-farm all the week. She went again and again.

Jim	Tess	"I don't like my children going and making themselves beholden to strange kin," murmured he. "I'm the head of the noblest branch o' the family, and I ought to live up to it." His reasons for staying away were worse to [MASK] than her own objections to going.

Mary	Retty	"We shan't, either of us; which is worse still," said the eldest. "There he is again!" They all three blew him a silent kiss. "Why?" asked [MASK] quickly. "

Mrs. Dashwood	Tess	"Neatly done, was it not, dear [MASK]?" he said by and by. "Yes!" said she. "I am sure I ought to be much obliged to you." "And are you?" She did not reply.

Jane	Angel	And I wanted so to see you again--so much, so much! What--not even you and I, [MASK], who love each other so well?" Like a greater than himself, to the critical question at the critical time he did not answer; and they were again silent.

Mrs. Joe	Tess	But to [MASK] and her mother's household no such anxious farmer sent his team. They were only women; they were not regular labourers; they were not particularly required anywhere; hence they had to hire a waggon at their own expense, and got nothing sent gratuitously.

Jim	Clare	"I did not expect such an event to-day." "Nor I... The water came up so sudden." That the rise in the water was what she understood him to refer to, the state of breathing belied. [MASK] stood still and inclinced his face towards hers.

Pip	Lord	"'Tis too soon for that; the bells hain't strook out yet. They be all gone to hear the preaching in yonder barn. A ranter preaches there between the services--an excellent, fiery, Christian man, they say. But, [MASK], I don't go to hear'n!

Evangeline	Angel	If you would train her and teach her, [MASK], and bring her up for your own self! ... She had all the best of me without the bad of me; and if she were to become yours it would almost seem as if death had not divided us...

Gerty	Tess	When the day grew quite strong and commonplace these dried off her; moreover, [MASK] then lost her strange and ethereal beauty; her teeth, lips, and eyes scintillated in the sunbeams and she was again the dazzlingly fair dairymaid only, who had to hold her own against the other women of the world.

Gerty	Tess	Most of the misery had been generated by her conventional aspect, and not by her innate sensations. Whatever [MASK]'s reasoning, some spirit had induced her to dress herself up neatly as she had formerly done, and come out into the fields, harvest-hands being greatly in demand just then.

Gerty	Tess	[MASK] went as far as the corner. She had done all she could do; but determined not to escape present trepidation at the expense of future distress, she walked back again quite past the house, looking up at all the windows.

Gerty	Clare	"I think we may as well steer in a general way towards the interior of the country, where we can hide for a time, and are less likely to be looked for than anywhere near the coast," [MASK] remarked.

Gerty	Abraham	When [MASK] realized all, the furrows of fifty years were extemporized on his young face. "Why, I danced and laughed only yesterday!" she went on to herself. "To think that I was such a fool!"

Laura	O	Is he on this farm?" "No," she murmured. "He is far away." "Far away? From YOU? What sort of husband can he be?" "[MASK], do not speak against him! It was through you!

Mother	Providence	It was really to hide her tears. If she could only believe what the children were singing; if she were only sure, how different all would now be; how confidently she would leave them to [MASK] and their future kingdom!

Farmer	Clare	In this way [MASK] persistently wooed her in undertones like that of the purling milk--at the cow's side, at skimmings, at butter-makings, at cheese-makings, among broody poultry, and among farrowing pigs--as no milkmaid was ever wooed before by such a man.

Mrs. Dashwood	Tess	It came from the bedroom window, and a branch waved in front of it and made it wink at her. As soon as she could discern the outline of the house--newly thatched with her money--it had all its old effect upon [MASK]'s imagination.

Johnny Appleseed	Hodge	Much to his surprise he took, indeed, a real delight in their companionship. The conventional farm-folk of his imagination-- personified in the newspaper-press by the pitiable dummy known as [MASK]--were obliterated after a few days' residence.

Lady	Tess	If you are wise you will show it to the world more than you do before it fades... And yet, [MASK], will you come back to me! Upon my soul, I don't like to let you go like this!" "Never, never!

Lady	Tess	It was always beautiful from here; it was terribly beautiful to [MASK] to-day, for since her eyes last fell upon it she had learnt that the serpent hisses where the sweet birds sing, and her views of life had been totally changed for her by the lesson.

Farmer Oak	Clare	Whose portraits are those?" asked [MASK] of the charwoman. "I have been told by old folk that they were ladies of the d'Urberville family, the ancient lords of this manor," she said, "Owing to their being builded into the wall they can't be moved away."

Estella	D'Urberville	The obscurity was now so great that he could see absolutely nothing but a pale nebulousness at his feet, which represented the white muslin figure he had left upon the dead leaves. Everything else was blackness alike. [MASK] stooped; and heard a gentle regular breathing.

Rodolphe	Shelleyan	Though not cold-natured, he was rather bright than hot--less Byronic than [MASK]; could love desperately, but with a love more especially inclined to the imaginative and ethereal; it was a fastidious emotion which could jealously guard the loved one against his very self.

