""	Rupert	Come on!” The answer to his taunts came in the wild cry of a woman: “He’s dead! My God, he’s dead!” “Dead!” shouted [MASK]. “I struck better than I knew!” and he laughed triumphantly.

""	Jacob	Thus voyaging, I came to my old friend, “[MASK]’s Ladder,” and felt the ledge of the masonry under me. I crouched down in the shadow of the great pipe--I tried to stir it, but it was quite immovable--and waited.

""	Sapt	[MASK] drew rein. “To the right is our road,” he said. “To the left, to the Castle. Each about eight miles. Get down.” “But they’ll be on us!” I cried. “Get down!”

""	Rudolf	This gentleman--” “Look at me, [MASK]! look at me!” she cried, taking my face between her hands. “Why do you let them torment me? Tell me what it means!” Then I spoke, gazing into her eyes.

""	Sapt	“I have tried not to dishonour it, sire,” said I. “I can’t talk much to you,” he said, in a weak voice. “I have had a great fight with [MASK] and the Marshal--for we have told the Marshal everything.

""	Fritz	[MASK] and the doctor withdrew to the window. I took the King’s ring from my finger and placed it on his. “I have tried not to dishonour it, sire,” said I. “I can’t talk much to you,” he said, in a weak voice.

""	Detchard	[MASK] replied with a savage thrust. He all but had me. “Come on! Come on, man!” I cried. “Come and share the fun!” And the King laughed gleefully, and came on, pushing his chair before him.

""	Fritz	I stripped off my boots, took a pull at a flask of brandy, loosened the knife in its sheath, and took the cudgel between my teeth. Then I shook hands with my friends, not heeding a last look of entreaty from [MASK], and laid hold of the rope.

""	Sapt	That, however, must be risked--that and all it might mean; for [MASK], no less than myself, recognized that the present state of things had become unendurable. And there was one thing that I dared to calculate on--not, as I now know, without warrant.

""	Sapt	“So do I, but I mean to know for certain. I shall go, [MASK].” “No, I shall go,” said he. “You may go as far as the gate.” “I shall go to the summer-house.”

""	Sapt	A man was waiting for us with two horses. One was a magnificent bay, up to any weight; the other a sturdy brown. [MASK] signed to me to mount the bay. Without a word to the man, we mounted and rode away.

""	Sapt	“They were none of them among our friends at the lodge, then?” I asked. “I wish they had been,” said [MASK] wistfully. “They had been, not six, but four, by now.”

""	Fate	She came near me and laid her hand on my shoulder. I put my hand up and held hers. “I know people write and talk as if it were. Perhaps, for some, [MASK] lets it be. Ah, if I were one of them!

""	Sapt	“You’re mad.” “Some day.” “Oh, perhaps. You’ll very likely stay there though, if you do.” “That may be, my friend,” said I carelessly. “His Majesty looks sulky,” observed [MASK].

""	Sapt	With one gleam of moonlight we should have riddled him with balls; but, in the darkness, he won to the corner of the Castle, and vanished from our sight. “The deuce take him!” grinned [MASK].

""	Michael	“The King may die.” “[MASK] will be forced to act before that.” “Then,” said I, “the King may live.” “Well, and if he does?” “For a fortnight?” I asked simply.

""	Michael	Whether I went in peace or in war, openly at the head of a corps, or secretly by a stealthy assault, the King would be dead before I could come near him. If [MASK] were stronger and overcame my party, there would be an end.

""	Josef	[MASK] called that the horses were ready. We jumped on their backs and started at a rapid trot. The game had begun. What would the issue of it be? The cool morning air cleared my head, and I was able to take in all

""	Bersonin	No doubt they had a light, but they should not use it. It was come to the crisis now, and I rushed down the steps and flung myself against the door. [MASK] had unbolted it and it gave way before me.

""	Fritz	Now, be the meat what it might, the wine we drank was beyond all price or praise, and we did it justice. [MASK] ventured once to stay the King’s hand. “What?” cried the King.

Gerty	Sapt	Since the coronation, her feelings have undergone a marked development. It’s quite true that she is deeply wounded by the King’s apparent neglect.” “Here’s a kettle of fish!” I groaned. “Tut, tut!” said [MASK].

""	Sapt	[MASK] stood there, bowing low, but with a stern frown on his face. “A thousand pardons, sire,” said he, “but his Eminence the Cardinal has waited this quarter of an hour to offer his respectful adieu to your Majesty.”

""	Johann	“What ails you, [MASK]?” asked the elder girl. “This is a gentleman on his travels, come to see the coronation.” The man had recovered himself, but he was staring at me with an intense, searching, almost fierce glance.

""	Flavia	asked [MASK], leaning over my shoulder, so that the ripple of her hair played on my cheek. “Is it a hoax?” “As you value life, and more than life, my queen,” I said, “obey it to the very letter.

""	Bersonin	Then I heard the bolt of the door cautiously drawn back. Instantly I put out the light I held, replacing the lamp in the bracket. “It’s dark--the lamp’s out. Have you a light?” said the other voice--[MASK]’s.

""	Detchard	“Pray my brother,” said the King, “to kill me. I am dying by inches here.” “The duke does not desire your death, sire--yet,” sneered [MASK]; “when he does behold your path to heaven!”

""	Sapt	Everything was in a mist as I dismounted. I saw the Marshal and [MASK] dimly, and dimly the throng of gorgeously robed priests who awaited me. And my eyes were still dim as I walked up the great nave, with the pealing of the organ in my ears.

""	Sapt	[MASK] advanced his hand towards the rose, but, with a quick movement, I shut mine down upon it. “That’s mine,” I said, “not yours--nor the King’s either.” “We struck a good blow for the King tonight,” said he.

""	Rupert	I dare say he scowled--it was a great regret to me that I could not see their faces better--but his voice was even and calm, as he answered: “Enough, enough! We mustn’t quarrel, [MASK].

""	Detchard	If you will open the door--” “Open it yourself,” said [MASK]. “It opens outwards,” said I. “Stand back a little, gentlemen, or I shall hit you when I open it.” I went and fumbled with the latch.

""	Johann	I had thrown myself on a pallet by the window, and was looking out on the black water; [MASK], the keeper, still pale from his wound, but not much hurt besides, had brought me supper.

""	Sapt	We passed into the room which had been the scene of last night’s bout. It was still strewn with the remnants of our meal and with empty bottles. “Come on,” cried [MASK], whose marvellous composure had at last almost given way.

""	Sapt	When we came to a thick clump, about a quarter of a mile from the Castle, we bade our six friends hide there with the horses. [MASK] had a whistle, and they could rejoin us in a few moments if danger came: but, up to now, we had met no one.

""	Hope	and catching up a chair in his hands (he could but just lift it from the ground and hold it uselessly before him) he came towards us. [MASK] came to me. “Come on!” I cried. “Come on! Drive it against his legs.”

""	Sapt	[MASK] turned to me and said, in a sharp, decisive voice: “You must make love to her tonight, you know.” “I think it is very likely I shall, if I see her alone,” said I. “Hang it,

""	Fritz	He did not stir, nor was there any break in his breathing. I saw that his face and head were wet with water, as were mine. “We’ve spent half an hour on him,” said [MASK].

""	Max	The wind was blowing a gale now, and there was little danger of oars being heard. I rowed swiftly round to where my friends waited. I had just reached the spot, when a loud whistle sounded over the moat behind me. “Hullo, [MASK]!”

""	Sapt	“Hang that same guard!” growled [MASK]. “Oh! it’s very civil of my brother to ask the honour for his regiment,” said the King. “Come, cousin, you need not start early. Another bottle, man!”

""	Michael	“It’s gospel truth,” he said--“thanks to my advice you could.” “I could marry the princess, and send [MASK] and his brother together to--” “I’m not denying it, lad,” said he.

""	George	At this point I changed the subject, and escaped from [MASK]’s “inspired” delusions. But if diplomatists never know anything more than they had succeeded in finding out in this instance, they appear to me to be somewhat expensive luxuries.

""	Sapt	“I’ll do nothing of the sort--no more will you!” said I. “I utterly refuse to take part in making a fool of the princess.” [MASK] looked at me with his small keen eyes. A slow cunning smile passed over his face.

""	Michael	By good luck, they feared to pursue him nearer the house.” He paused and added: “Lad, the bullet was meant for you.” “It is very likely,” said I, “and it’s first blood to brother [MASK].”

""	Rudolf	“There’s the King’s signature,” he said, “and here,” he went on, after another search in his pocket, “is some tracing paper. If you can’t manage a ‘[MASK]’ in ten minutes, why--I can.”

""	Flavia	“[MASK],” I said, in a strange dry voice that seemed not my own, “I am not--” As I spoke--as she raised her eyes to me--there was a heavy step on the gravel outside, and a man appeared at the window.

""	Michael	I hoped that [MASK] was still off his guard, believing me to be safe in bed. However that might be, we gained the top of the hill without accident, and found ourselves on the edge of the moat where it sweeps under the road, separating the Old Castle from it.

""	Michael	“Nor anyone else?” And again I answered: “No, sweetheart.” Yet there was one--not [MASK]--who, if he lived, must keep me from her; and for whose life I was going forth to stake my own.

""	Fritz	[MASK] touched me on the shoulder, and I rose, gave her my arm, and walked down the hall into a little room, where coffee was served to us. The gentlemen and ladies in attendance withdrew, and we were alone.

""	Michael	If [MASK] were the worst--” “What worse is there?” There was yet a chance for me. Controlling myself with a mighty effort, I took my hands off her and stood a yard or two away. I remember now the note of the wind in the elm trees outside.

""	Sapt	[MASK] wavered. “Well,” said he, “it’s not business, you know; but you’ve been good boy--and if we come to grief, why, hang me, it’ll save us lot of thinking!

""	Sapt	I exclaimed. “Upon my honour, I’m not the only man who’s had a trying day! What did he think, [MASK]?” “What does that matter? What does he think, lad, now?” I rose to my feet.

""	Fritz	again. But I could not. And being very tired, and now very cold, I huddled myself close up to [MASK], to get the warmth of him, and shut my eyes again and went to sleep. CHAPTER 20

""	Detchard	[MASK] was under the table, but, as I rose, he pushed it from him and fired again. I raised my revolver and took a snap shot; I heard him curse, and then I ran like a hare, laughing as I went, past the summer-house and along by the wall.

""	Rupert	Yet the laugh told me that my men had not come; for they must have shot [MASK] ere now, if they had come. And the clock struck half-past two! My God! The door had not been opened! They had gone to the bank!

""	Rudolf	“Would ‘Yes’ be true?” “Yes,” I just heard her breathe, and she went on in an instant: “Be careful, [MASK]; be careful, dear. He will be mad now.”

""	Robert	“No, I won’t promise; but if I find enough material, I will.” “That’s fair enough,” said [MASK]. “Oh, material doesn’t matter!” she said, pouting.

""	Flavia	I had made all arrangements for being absent, and now there was only one thing left to do--the hardest, the most heart-breaking. As evening fell, I drove through the busy streets to [MASK]’s residence. I was recognized as I went and heartily cheered.

""	Rupert	He had repaid me with interest my hit about his mother. Then came the most audacious thing I have known in my life. My friends were some thirty yards away. [MASK] called to a groom to bring him his horse, and dismissed the fellow with a crown.

""	Rudolf	With a sudden great groan, I caught her to my heart. “My darling!” I cried, forgetting everything but her, “did you dream that I left you to go hunting?” “What then, [MASK]? Ah! you’re not going--?”

""	Sapt	I heard shouted. I hailed [MASK] in a low tone. The rope came down. I tied it round the corpse, and then went up it myself. “Whistle you too,” I whispered, “for our men, and haul in the line.

""	Michael	This is not the King, because we kidnapped the King and murdered his servant. Can they say that?” The position flashed on me. Whether [MASK] knew me or not, he could not speak. Unless he produced the King, what could he do?

""	Michael	I did not know, of course; but, unless the King were an impostor, at once cleverer and more audacious than I (and I began to think something of myself in that role), [MASK] could not believe that.

""	Sapt	He went into a room alone to read it--and he came out looking like a man dazed.” “I’m ready,” said I, this news making me none the more eager to linger. [MASK] sat down.

""	Sapt	and setting spurs to his horse, galloped on. [MASK] raised his weapon after him, and there was such an expression of wistful regret on his face that I had much ado not to burst out laughing. For ten minutes we stayed where we were.

""	Rudolf	These thoughts passed through my head, but, not being sure of my ground, I said nothing; and in a moment or two the princess, recovering her equanimity, turned to me. “Do you know, [MASK],” said she, “you look somehow different today?”

""	Sapt	His face turned pale, and he pointed again at the floor. From under the door a red stain had spread over the floor of the passage and dried there. [MASK] sank against the opposite wall. I tried the door. It was locked.

""	Sapt	I was up and over in a minute. Doubling back, I saw the horses; then I heard a shot. It was [MASK]. He had heard us, and was battling and raging with the locked gate, hammering it and firing into the keyhole like a man possessed.

""	Sapt	“Not so loud! Here’s the King!” A knock sounded on the door. [MASK] seized me by the hand. “Here, quick, to the bedroom! Off with your cap and boots. Get into bed. Cover everything up.”

""	Sapt	His face was red as his hair, and he breathed heavily. [MASK], the disrespectful old dog, kicked him sharply. He did not stir, nor was there any break in his breathing. I saw that his face and head were wet with water, as were mine.

""	Sapt	He could not appreciate--I will not say an honest man, for the thoughts of my own heart have been revealed--but a man acting honestly. He saw my opportunity as I had seen it, as [MASK] had seen it; he knew the princess--nay

""	Sapt	Also I tied round my body a length of thin but stout cord, and I did not forget my ladder. I, starting after [MASK], took a shorter route, skirting the town to the left, and found myself in the outskirts of the forest at about half-past twelve.

""	Detchard	I cried. “Come and share the fun!” And the King laughed gleefully, and came on, pushing his chair before him. With an oath [MASK] skipped back, and, before I knew what he was doing, had turned his sword against the King.

""	Flavia	Not even at the walls of the Palace did he stop; for when at last I handed [MASK] down the broad marble steps and into her carriage, there was a great crowd awaiting us, and we were welcomed with deafening cheers. What could I do?

""	Michael	“I prefer your offer, my lord, if I am bound to one.” “You refuse?” “Of course.” “I told [MASK] you would;” and the villain, his temper restored, gave me the sunniest of smiles.

""	Sapt	“We must stop his mouth, if he talks.” I put my hand on my revolver. [MASK] hailed the doorkeeper. The stars fought for us! A little girl of fourteen tripped out. “Please, sir, father’s gone to see the King.”

""	Bersonin	By blessed chance, neither he nor [MASK] had been wearing their revolvers. I found them afterwards, ready loaded, on the mantelpiece of the outer room: it was hard by the door, ready to their hands, but my sudden rush in had cut off access to them.

""	Faith	“No? [MASK], I was between two fires!” “Get off your horse,” I cried, “and fight like a man.” “Before a lady!” said he, pointing to the girl. “Fie, your Majesty!”

""	Sapt	A little girl of fourteen tripped out. “Please, sir, father’s gone to see the King.” “He’d better have stayed here,” said [MASK] to me, grinning. “But he said I wasn’t to open the gate, sir.”

""	Sapt	“He drank three times what either of you did,” growled [MASK]. I knelt down and felt his pulse. It was alarmingly languid and slow. We three looked at one another. “Was it drugged--that last bottle?” I asked in a whisper.

""	Flavia	“No, my child,” said [MASK] softly (I was told it afterwards), and she smiled and gave the girl money. “I will go and see this gentleman,” and she rose to alight from the carriage.

""	Michael	“You call him [MASK] when you meet him?” “Yes--by the orders of your father.” “I see. And now by mine?” “If those are your orders.” “Oh, decidedly!

""	Sapt	“You may go as far as the gate.” “I shall go to the summer-house.” “I’m hanged if you shall!” I rose and leant my back against the mantelpiece. “[MASK], I believe in that woman, and I shall go.”

""	Robert	she cried. At this moment [MASK] (who rises at seven and works before breakfast) came in. He glanced at his wife: her cheek was slightly flushed; he patted it caressingly. “What’s the matter, my dear?” he asked.

""	Strelsau	I tell you, I could raise all [MASK] on you in an hour, and choke you with your lies--yes, your mad lies--in your mouth.” “It’s gospel truth,” he said--“thanks to my advice you could.”

""	Antoinette	“They are treacherous.” “That seems handsome,” said I, reconnoitering through the chink. They were all close together, just outside the door now. I had probed the hearts of the ruffians, and I did not need [MASK]’s warning.

""	Rupert	By the careless, graceful poise, I guessed it to be [MASK] again. He held a sword in his hand, and he stood motionless for a minute or two. Wild thoughts ran through me. On what mischief was the young fiend bent now?

""	Josef	“She swore she’d heard nothing,” said he; “but to make sure I tied her legs together and put a handkerchief in her mouth and bound her hands, and locked her up in the coal-cellar, next door to the King. [MASK] will look after them both later on.”

""	Sapt	It was a fine night, and presently the moon appeared. We talked little on the way, and chiefly about the progress we were making. “I wonder what the duke’s despatches told him,” said I, once. “Ay, I wonder!” responded [MASK].

""	Sapt	But at this moment [MASK] came riding from the Castle, and, seeing the princess, made the best of a bad job, and cried to her that the King was well tended and in no danger. “In the Castle?” she asked.

""	Flavia	The countess, with a gay glance, led the way, and took me into [MASK]’s morning-room. And, left alone, we greeted one another as lovers are wont. Then the princess laid two letters before me.

""	Sapt	The King towered over [MASK], and, as he listened, his eyes now and again sought mine. I looked at him long and carefully. The likeness was certainly astonishing, though I saw the points of difference also.

""	Michael	I meant to make myself as popular as I could, and at the same time to show no disfavour to [MASK]. By these means I hoped to allay the hostility of his adherents, and make it appear, if an open conflict came about, that he was ungrateful and not oppressed.

""	Flavia	I remember that my predominant feeling was neither anxiety for the King nor longing for [MASK], but an intense desire to smoke; and this craving, of course, I could not gratify. The drawbridge was still in its place.

""	Johann	There a servant handed me a note: it was unaddressed. “Is it for me?” I asked. “Yes, sire; a boy brought it.” I tore it open: [MASK] carries this for me. I warned you once.

""	Sapt	“Here, wrap yourself in this big cloak,” [MASK] continued to me, “and put on this flat cap. My orderly rides with me to the hunting-lodge tonight.” “There’s an obstacle,” I observed.

""	Fritz	A man doesn’t expect to see double at this time of day, eh, [MASK]?” “I must pray pardon, sire, for my presumption,” said I. “I trust it will not forfeit your Majesty’s favour.” “By Heaven!

""	Ruritania	Then I was false to all that I should have held by. For I caught her in my arms and prayed her, in words that I will not write, to come with me, daring all [MASK] to take her from me.

""	Rupert	“But I detest waiting,” said [MASK]; and I saw that he was about to lay his hand on her again, when there was a noise of a door in the room opening, and a harsh voice cried: “What are you doing here, sir?”

""	Sapt	[MASK] ceased speaking, and the King still frowned. Then, gradually, the corners of his mouth began to twitch, his nose came down (as mine does when I laugh), his eyes twinkled, and, behold!

""	Detchard	I went and fumbled with the latch. Then I stole back to my place on tiptoe. “I can’t open it!” I cried. “The latch has caught.” “Tut! I’ll open it!” cried [MASK].

""	Antoinette	I still had my eye to the chink. The three had mounted two steps more; three revolvers pointed full at the door. “Will you let us in? We pledge our honour to observe the truce.” “Don’t trust them,” whispered [MASK].

