""	Mary	There’s something you’re not telling me.” “We should go back inside.” Despite the fiery eyes, the voice remained calm as autumn. “They’re going to miss us in a minute.” “What did you leave out, [MASK]?

""	Lemaster	And, besides, why would [MASK] move a bodyguard into the house?” She held up a hand. “Wait. I know. You can’t tell me, right?” “Right.” “But I’m forbidden to write about him.”

Susan	Kellen	Besides, with all this money floating around I can’t trust anybody. Not even my own people. Not even myself. Not enough. Surely this was not the sum total of [MASK]’s evidence. With trepidation, she advanced on the final envelope.

Mom	Vanessa	“They will for the right person. That’s what you always tell me.” “[MASK]—” “It’s time to grow up,” she said, and left, not specifying who among them needed the growth.

""	Aurelia	“She’s a great lady.” The dance floor was crowded and the band was loud, but [MASK] never raised her voice. A cone of silence seemed to have descended over them. “There’s still a lot she can teach you.”

""	Lemaster	She did not often give vent to her anger, not in the years since marrying [MASK]. It was like being high, only more natural. Making sure the lawyer saw her do it, she tore the card in half and tossed the pieces into the filthy snow mounded along the street.

""	Astrid	I didn’t complain or make demands. I suggested that he get [MASK] to slow down a little on the oppo research, or the story would become not whatever she dug up but the fact that she was digging.” “And that was all?”

now	Frank	So they marched through the snowdrifts on the forest floor, avoiding the roads, [MASK] now in charge, because he knew the way. The trek seemed interminable, and her feet were soon so cold she could not feel her toes, but it hardly mattered, because she was too scared to worry.

""	Julia	The ex-wife had hard golden eyes. Whatever her politics back home, she was exhausted from so much exuberant blackness. [MASK] perceived at once that the woman did not need another hug, and so shook her hand instead.

""	Kellen	“I know it sounds silly. But [MASK] said he had the goods on a major political figure.” She pointed toward the glass doors. “Maybe the guy in there. Maybe somebody else. I don’t know, and he wouldn’t say.”

""	Tessa	“Just thinking. Sorry.” “Do you notice that no reporters are digging into the President’s college years? I hate this kind of conspiracy of silence. You should call your old roommate. [MASK]. Tell her to find the scandal.”

""	Tonya	“Oh, I wouldn’t know about all. Some.” [MASK] was the principal of an elementary school and liked to be precise. “So, what are you telling me, honey? You know the guy?” “We’ve met.”

Ponyboy	Zant	Turned up ten years ago in a file cabinet in the basement of the town hall, with a bunch of my daddy’s junk they were gonna throw out. But I don’t have it any more. I gave it to [MASK], like you said.

""	Frank	[MASK]’s pinched face came up, eyes squinty and moist. “Me? How would I know something like that? I only met the man that one time, when he came in the store to—” “To buy the cheval. I know.”

""	Kellen	“Uh-huh. And how I was the spitten image of my mother. Only [MASK] said spitting. Got it wrong.” A shy smile danced over her lips and was gone. “How he liked my taste in clothes. How smart I was.

""	Casey	“Saving you guys a pot of money with MP3S. But don’t worry, I’m mainly ripping CDs I borrowed from [MASK] and using a file-swapper nobody’s heard of, this really cool Korean site. Don’t get that look. It’ll be fine.

""	Julia	Led the search parties and so forth.” [MASK] said, “The line between doting and coveting—” She got no further. Whisted’s aide was on his feet. “You’re not as smart as you think you are,” he said, moving toward her.

""	Kellen	You’re auditioning for a place. What was [MASK] up to? What did he say?” The writer sighed and gazed off toward the pond. The Make Way for Ducklings sculpture glistened darkly in the bright winter sun.

Jimmy	Frank	Then the three of them sat around the room drinking Diet Cokes. In the middle of the floor, [MASK] seemed to be working on his most ambitious project yet, a diorama that took up most of the floor.

""	Lemmie	“[MASK], we should call somebody.” “No, we shouldn’t. Come inside. We have to talk. And, believe me, we’ll both need a drink.” She looked at his face. Had being followed upset him so much?

""	Julia	He asked me what you did, if some black man had paid me to drop the lawsuit.” “He asked about a black man?” “That’s what I said.” So simple, [MASK] realized. She should have seen it.

""	Bruce	Then there were the truly terrible days when it fell to [MASK], in his official capacity, to notify parents, spouses, siblings— I wish I had better news for you, but your daughter was at afrat party last night and it seems that. . .—and

""	Bruce	“I need you to do me one more favor.” A crooked grin. “It’s a big one.” “What’s that?” “Stop following me.” “What?” “I want you to stop following me, [MASK].

""	Vanessa	He was growing angry again, and squaring to throw her out, but she kept her eyes down. “What are you staring at?” he demanded. [MASK] pointed to the bottom right-hand corner of the diorama. “The terrain is wrong.”

""	Lemaster	Don’t you care about the truth?” “The only truth that matters,” said [MASK] with solemn kindness, “is the truth of how much we can gain for our people.” He looked at her again.

""	Bruce	“Hmmm.” “May I ask why you wanted this information?” “Yes.” He waited, then frowned. “Yes, what?” “Yes, [MASK], you may ask. But I’m not going to tell you.”

Ponyboy	Julia	Words rich with admiration. And relish. “Had some fresh information, he said. Swing the balance in the campaign. That’s what he said. Wouldn’t say which way it would swing. Clever bastard. Said it was for sale. Sale, [MASK].

""	Julia	In a panic now, [MASK] swung a second time, missing the head and smacking the upper torso. The dog howled in pain but kept on coming. Heavy paws pressed her parka, and, with the bulk of its weight leaning into her, the creature tipped her over.

""	Boris	When not busily carping, [MASK] taught a bit and mainly managed the div school’s budget, at which task he was a wiz, but the dean wisely kept him out of public view. “At least that’s what the police say,” he smirked.

""	DeShaun	Her finger stabbed the air. “Now, [MASK] is dead, and if you go digging that up, well, no story in the newspapers is gonna bring him back. Putting some powerful white man in jail isn’t gonna bring him back.

""	Joe	She wanted to know the definition of “nonrivalrous consumption,” an economics term, and [MASK] was, once more, her muse. “Consumption is rivalrous,” he said, “when iiiy use of a thing leaves less for you. Look out the window.

""	Kellen	So, if you can guess other people’s bids, you’ll get the thing for less in an allpay auction than in the other kinds. The crazy part was [MASK] think- ing once he started putting out feelers the whole thing would stay secret. Are you done?”

""	Smith	Then, without quite asking for permis- sion, or even informing her mother and father until the deed was done, she arranged to defer admission, and announced that, upon turning eighteen in October, she was going to join [MASK] for a tour of the country, by car.

""	Kellen	“Well, [MASK] was the kind of man who had lots and lots of grudges, but most of them were about people he’d never met. You know. Politicians, activists, syndicated columnists, people he thought wasted their influence.”

""	Chrebet	That was all.” The skinnier detective, a man named [MASK], grew interested. “I found some reports saying the two of you hadn’t ever gotten along. Some private thing.” “Nonsense.”

""	Jules	“I don’t really remember.” “What I mean is—” “It’s after three, [MASK]. We have a long drive tomorrow.” He slipped free of her and rolled away, leaving her alone in the chilly darkness.

Mary	Julia	She worried the problem over in her mind. Usually so decisive, [MASK] could not figure out whether to ring the bell again or not. The sun passed behind a low winter cloud and took her confidence with it.

""	Bruce	[MASK] walked over to the window, which looked out into the drab lot where the university stored the fleet of recycled school buses, repainted in the college colors, that wheezed around the campus in a parody of efficient transport.

""	Kellen	“[MASK]? What do you think he did? I told you, he was commitment-shy. He sent her back. Said that wasn’t the deal.” “He sent her back ... to you?”

""	Bruce	“What did you say?” “That the university was facing the possibility of litigation because of an old case. I’m sorry, Director, it was the best I could come up with.” [MASK] smiled. “Excellent work. That was well done . . .

""	Zant	They say you’re a dogged investigator. I’m sure you’ll track down [MASK]’s surplus.” “There is no reason in the world for me to help you.” “You don’t want my clients to become active, believe me.

""	Bay	He’d do you a deal. Just lock up the silver and keep your hands on the table.” “So you keep telling me, [MASK].” “Sit in my lap.” “I can’t. I have to watch my blood pressure.”

""	Julia	He said it was just a teaser. So he slept on the sofa. So what?” [MASK] wondered whether she was logier than she thought, from rising so early and driving so far, or whether the journalist really was making as little sense as she seemed to.

""	Cookie	Knowing this moment would come, she had worn loose pants and sneakers. And, after an autumn spent far too close to [MASK]’s, she could use the exercise. So she left the two men alone. This was their element, scheming together.

""	Julia	Her voice softened. “You used to be some kind of teacher, didn’t you?” [MASK] bristled but kept her temper, the surface tension holding. “I taught in the public schools for—” She stopped, aware that she had missed the point.

""	Lemaster	But when she checked all the copies in the house—both the 1928 version favored by [MASK] and the more modem texts used by nearly all Episcopal churches—no notes or cards or photos fell out of page 83, or any other page.

""	Julia	Silence in the woods. At least between the two humans. Animals squiggled through the underbrush. Wind crackled the branches. The fuel continued to drip, drip, drip. “You won’t do it, [MASK].” But he did not sound so sure.

""	Gwen	But the uniform itself was something of an affectation: by university tradition, patrol officers wore blue but supervisors wore business attire. She seemed reluctant to go, and, as he turned toward his office, she followed. “Is there a problem, [MASK]?”

""	Julia	His cough was hollow and wet and rattling. “Leave that work to them, [MASK].” “I’m not thinking about politics. I’m thinking about justice.” “Justice.” Not quite a sneer but almost. “Let me tell you something.

""	Kellen	“My home and office number are the same. I wrote my cell phone. You give a ring, I’m on the next flight.” “I doubt that I’ll be calling.” “Because you’re not interested in what [MASK] was up to.

""	Julia	“He did?” said [MASK], face suddenly warm. She picked it up. It was silver and tortoiseshell, intricately filigreed on the handle and the back, manufactured in the late nineteenth century by the famous British maker William Comyns, whose hallmark was embossed on the handle, hidden within the design.

""	Bruce	He wasn’t in it just for the money. He always said economists could make the world better, if we would just turn our attention to the right problems.” [MASK] said gently, “That wasn’t exactly what I wanted to talk about.” “

""	Vanessa	[MASK] is. She doesn’t cry or have nightmares, that’s not who she is. She dances to funeral dirges. She studies war. She laughs, she seems ebullient. But on the inside she’s suffering. I know she is.

""	Maureen	I do. You do. Everybody does.” She went very still. “What my husband is saying,” [MASK] explained, unnecessarily, eyes tighdy shut, “is that we all had our wild periods.” She brushed graying hair from her forehead.

""	Julia	“For some reason, [MASK], they seem to have been ordered to keep away from me.” “Seriously?” He nodded, not at all put out. “I’m not sure what’s going on. Maybe it’s some sort of bureaucratic snafu.

""	Tessa	Then [MASK], before hanging up, asked the worst question of all. “And the two of you were over, right? I mean, like, really over?” “Of course.” “There wasn’t, like, any hint of any little thing?”

""	Bruce	“Who won more games? On Friday, before he died?” Allowing a light touch, but just that, of impatience to show. “Oh, well, I won more games," said the economist, as if [MASK] was missing the point.

""	Bruce	So the item was not for his own pleasure; he had taken it for its trade value, bartering it in exchange for something he could not buy with money. [MASK] had an idea what. He wondered whether the secretary saw what he saw. Probably.

""	Whisted	But where would that leave the darker nation? Why shouldn’t the darker nation have the chance to get what it deserves? Lock up [MASK], and you get the satisfaction of knowing that a man who did a terrible thing thirty years ago is behind bars.

""	Bruce	Another the same night turned out to be a congressional staffer. Possibly some of our more “liberal” townspeople have been entertaining them. “And hello to you, too,” muttered [MASK], who could not for the life of him understand why black people moved to the suburbs.

""	RIAA”—she	It’ll be fine. My anti-hunterbot systems are enabled. [MASK] pronounced it ree-ah—“will never find me.” “And how would you describe what you’re doing if your first language was English?” “Downloading music.” “Oh.”

""	Bruce	She shook her head firmly. “Don’t press me, [MASK].” Something in her eyes bothered him, and perhaps she saw something in his, because she dropped her hand to the table. She started drumming.

""	Nate	They’ll leak it to the papers, [MASK], and the papers will eat you alive.” “You can’t talk to me that way!” “I’m only telling you what I think will happen.” “You’re threatening me.”

""	Vanessa	Oh, honey.” Offering a hug, which [MASK], still as a statue, neither accepted nor refused. “He was a terrible man. He was.” She wondered whom she was trying to persuade. “He had no business doing any of that.

""	Vanessa	She could not imagine how it must feel to have your therapist injured and nearly killed. Gently, she tapped her daughter on the shoulder. [MASK]’s eyes flew open, the fearful, startled look frightening to see, until it melted into a smooth smile.

""	Julia	“You’re really particular, did you know that?” “Runs in the family,” said [MASK], probably by way of apology. “So—is he?” On her feet, searching for her jacket.

and	Aurie	“I’m only asking because I have this mess at home, and I think [MASK] was trying to tell me that they’re related. Come on. You know something about them that I don’t. I think it’s about time you told me.”

""	Lemaster	They had reached the fence. [MASK] grabbed hold as if to keep from falling in. His voice strengthened. “Then, about, oh, two, maybe three in the morning, I woke up. Or, rather, one of my roommates woke me.

""	Julia	Instead, she has watched through windows as the residents turned fearfully away, as though she is a terrorist, or a disease carrier, or black. [MASK] hurries toward the entrance to the cul-de-sac, far now from the greenbelt.

""	Julia	[MASK] stood shivering in the wind, hands in her pockets, unwilling to surrender to the voluptuous possibility that the mystery was solved. She had wanted it to be Scrunchy, but now the evidence pointed the other way.

""	Lemmie	“That’s all blown over. The media exaggerated it anyway. It was just a handful of professors. Besides, you know [MASK]. He’ll charm his way out of—” “Good. Right.”

""	LBJ	She says you have it all wrong, she has nothing against the coloreds and she never did, even back when they were burning everything in sight until [MASK], rest his soul, called the National Guard to make them stop: she’s upset about the stupid house.

""	Jeannie	Leading [MASK] to the altar rail by now, she imagined. “Okay,” she said. “Aren’t you going to ask me why?” “Do you want me to ask you why?” “Oh, Moms, don’t do that.

""	Kellen	“Maybe the guy in there. Maybe somebody else. I don’t know, and he wouldn’t say.” Maybe the guy in there. No. No. Do not think about it. Do not invite [MASK] back into your life.

""	Bruce	At last the secretary stepped aside. The foyer was wide and nicely appointed, the furniture heavy and old and, to [MASK]’s untutored eye, valuable. Oil paintings of country scenes filled the walls, both here and up the staircase.

""	Julia	he repeated, the formality in his greeting a symbol of respect less for [MASK] than for tradition. “I’m very sorry to disturb you,” she said, mimicking, unintentionally, his sepulchral tone. “But I had a question.” “I see.”

""	Julia	She gave me this look, [MASK]. I know, when you were little, you used to say I had these looks I’d give you, like you were just the lowest of the low. My how-could-you-let-me-down-this-way look.

""	Bruce	It was just as well, [MASK] decided, that he could not understand what the young man had said, because he suspected that full knowledge of whatever imprecation the boy had mouthed would have left him very angry indeed. Maybe too angry.

""	Jules	I’ll tell you something, [MASK]. They were all guilty. They were rich, drunken frat boys. All humans are mortal and imperfect, they grow up, and they grew into reasonably upstanding men. That’s fine. But you asked me about the past.

""	Brady	I’ll grant that. He could have had the spyware planted on your computer. Maybe he bribed one of your assistants”—Julia had no trouble guessing which—“or maybe he broke in and did it himself. Just for trying to kill [MASK], he faces years in prison.

""	Bruce	They set themselves an objective and head straight toward it. Very military. Very organized. Very mission-driven. Your kind of people, [MASK].” The cockiness was returning. “I think maybe you could help them.” “You’re joking.”

""	Kellen	That was all. A young man, late teens, early twenties, asleep on a sofa. I called [MASK], I told him this didn’t help. He told me if I could identify the young man he would identify where it was taken.

""	Vanessa	She decided to let it go. “I see,” was her only comment. “You don’t believe that, do you?” A smirk? No, no, just the usual sardonic innocence by which [MASK] evaluated the world outside her own mind and perceptions.

""	Julia	Just for a few weeks.” “Well, we can all look forward to that,” she said, and lay, worrying, awake. (II) In the morning, [MASK] returned to the beach to walk with her husband’s cousin.

""	Kellen	“Maybe instinct. It’s too convenient.” “Convenient?” The president snorted. “The man gets shot on the eve of a meeting with our Senior Trustee? Who tells me [MASK] had some information that would be useful in the election?

""	Kellen	She knew at once that the room was [MASK]’s, not so much from the squeaky-clean nattiness of posters and bed and books, or from the economics and math and science texts lining the walls. No, the way she knew was from the delicate silver hand mirror lying atop the dresser.

""	Worried	After a while, even the brain of an amateur senses surveillance. When her gaze moved over his car, he was careful to remain perfecdy still, because ducking or turning his face away would only draw her attention. She looked pale. [MASK]. Even frightened.

""	Mary	She squeezed [MASK]’s hand. There was an awful lot of blood. “Listen to me,” she said. “There are sirens. Somebody’s on the way. They’ll help you. Otherwise I’ll send help. But I can’t stay here.”

""	Grace	He was still holding on to the wide-open door of the car. The itch in his mind was back. He thought about handing [MASK] in, as her people used to call it, securing her door before opening his own. Of course.

""	Julia	[MASK] had found herself utterly enchanted by the absurdity of this conceit. That she knew the brilliant young lawyer who thought he had a vocation to the priesthood intended to enchant her did nothing to diminish the effectiveness of his strategy.

""	Bruce	“Just doing my job, sir.” “You can dispense with the ‘sir,’ [MASK]. This isn’t the military, and our wives were close.” He crossed his legs and sipped his tea, the very picture of relaxation.

""	Julia	“It’s all I know,” he insisted. “I don’t think so. You still can’t meet my eyes. There’s something you’re not telling me.” “[MASK]—” “There’s more to the story.

""	Kellen	Please. Tell me what you’re so upset about.” About the fact that I seem to get awfully riled every time [MASK]’s name is mentioned. About the fact that he broke the lamps on our driveway. About the fact that he left me two mirrors.

""	Zant	He shook his head. “They never talked to me.” “But you talked to your clients, didn’t you? Maybe called them from the car, while [MASK] was on the phone? Or from the tavern while you waited for your taxi?”

""	Kellen	Eyebrows up, just like her father’s. “For what?” “Well, number one, for being the wonderfully special person you are. Number two, for helping me out with [MASK]’s word games. I think you’re actually better at it than he was.

""	Smith	Her hand trembled, but she was able to make it stop. “I tell her everything anyway.” [MASK] let out a small grunt that might have been sorrow or glee, disagreement or excitement or even a snore. The device in her lap had a small screen.

Bill	Nate	Do you know what the penalty is in this state for obstruction of justice? I’ll tell you for free, [MASK], it’s not as bad as the penalty for being an accessory to murder, which is what you’re looking at right now.

""	Jules	Our opportunity to win justice for our people does not turn in any way on the actual identity of the culprit in a crime the world has long forgotten. We are avenging a far larger crime, [MASK]. Remember that.” Now she knew what frightened her.

""	Lemaster	“Pretending that way.” She had stuffed the envelopes in her briefcase. At the same time, she had palmed the chemical mace [MASK] made her carry. She had never used it before but was not about to let the materials pass into the wrong hands.

""	Bruce	“I know how it is,” [MASK] repeated, fuming, but only to himself. “These boys were just having fun. They weren’t involved in whatever else might have happened. Terrible business, but one must move on, mustn’t one?

